Across the world, blood has different meanings. In some cases, blood is used to divide people through harm, while in other situations, blood brings people together like family. Because Macbeth hesitates killing Duncan, Shakespeare uses blood to reveal the guilt, conflict, and uncertainty that Macbeth feels about his actions. Before killing Duncan, Macbeth starts hallucinating about a bloody dagger. He says, “... [a]nd, on thy blade and dudgeon, gouts of blood, [w]hich was not so before. There’s no such thing. It is the bloody business which informs [t]hus to mine eyes” (2.1. 58-61). The thought and anticipation of murdering Duncan takes a toll on Macbeth. He is unable to think properly; the prospect of the killing has consumed him, and his uncertainty is revealed through the mention of blood. Macbeth is unsure if the bloody dagger is real, or just a part of his imagination, which is symbolic of his hesitation and anxiety about killing Duncan. He also refers to the plot as bloody business, indicating that he knows that it is dirty work. Later in the play, after the murder of Duncan, the mention of blood by Lady Macbeth triggers Macbeth, and reveals his feelings after completing the deed. Lady Macbeth tells Macbeth to “... carry them [the daggers] and smear [t]he sleepy grooms with blood” (2.2. 63-64), to which Macbeth responds, “I’ll go no more. I am afraid to think what I have done. Look on’t again I dare not” (2.2. 65-67). Macbeth is directly telling his wife that he is guilty about the murder, and has an inner conflict. He is so strongly affected that he does not even want to revisit the crime scene. In this case, blood is again a huge factor in the characterization of Macbeth. It provokes Macbeth, and sends him into a flashback that reveals his shame in killing Duncan. He wants to hide from his actions, instead of accepting them. After this exchange, Macbeth is left alone, and he starts talking to himself. He wonders, “[w]ill all great Neptune’s ocean wash this blood [c]lean from my hand? No…” (2.2. 78-79). Literally, Macbeth might be talking about some blood that is on his hand, and it being hard to get off. But figuratively, the blood is symbolic for his guilt and uncertainty. What Macbeth is truly questioning is whether anything will ever be able to clear his conscience and guilt, to which he comes to the conclusion no. Both before and after the murder of Duncan, Shakespeare uses blood as a motif to show the audience the guilt, uncertainty, and sorrow that Macbeth is feeling.