Across the world, there are thousands of different languages composed of different sounds and symbols, but they all serve the same purpose: communication. Verbal conversation, writing, and other forms of expression transfer information between groups of people, and oftentimes these interactions directly influence the subsequent course of action. Community activist and political theorist Saul Alinsky once remarked, “[h]e who controls the language controls the masses”, and in history, there have been countless examples of words employed under both good and bad intentions impacting significant events of the time. The world saw Lincoln deliver his famous Gettysburg Address during the American Civil War to increase Union morale, which played a key part in the Union’s eventual victory, but it also saw the Soviet Union heavily censor media to ensure that the public only followed the government-backed narrative. Saul Alinsky was right, and literature and current events support his conclusion that a language is a tool used to shape and manipulate society.
In George Orwell’s 1984 the fictional language of Oceania, Newspeak, is employed by Big Brother to manage the population and work to regulate thought. Syme explains to Winston, “[d]on’t you see the whole aim of Newspeak is to narrow the range of thought? In the end we shall make thoughtcrime literally impossible, because there will be no words in which to express it” (Orwell 52). Big Brother’s eventual goal is to eliminate free thought by gradually removing words from the language because an oppressed population that is unable to think for itself and formulate arguments against the party will also be unable to rebel for its freedom. In a comparable, but not entirely identical way, the United States today continues to use words to purposely downplay certain narratives that would not necessarily be beneficial to the country. One significant example comes from a CNN town hall in February in which President Biden made some controversial comments regarding China. When he was asked to comment on Beijing’s mistreatment of Uighur Muslims, President Biden responded, “[c]ulturally, there are different norms that each country and their leaders are expected to follow” (Lapin). The importance of this phrase may seem minimal, but it sets a dangerous precedent and exploits an otherwise positive change in American society. Although there is still much work to do, one cannot deny that the country has significantly improved its tolerance in recent years. Differences in culture, behavior, and identity have been more widely accepted, and instead of ostracizing differences, society has learned to embrace them without judgment. President Biden appears to take advantage of this development because he attributes the Chinese treatment of Uighur Muslims to their cultural differences, and seems to accept it as their way of life. This kind of manipulation is dangerous because it seriously undermines the horrors that Uighurs have to face, and instead implies that one should not interfere with another’s culture even if it is undeniably wrong simply because it is another’s norm.
The important thing to note is that even though Big Brother eliminates words to create Newspeak to suppress the public, while President Biden used words to mislead the public, the end goal was essentially the same: in both cases, the government used language as a mechanism of control in order to achieve an objective. The solution to overcoming the controlling power of language might lie in the original purpose of language itself: communication. Manipulation through language relies on changing people’s beliefs, so when people share their thoughts and observations and aggressively protect their own opinions, it will be almost impossible for language to control the masses.