Pride - it is well known, but hard to truly understand. In Erik Larson’s The Devil in the White City and William Shakespeare’s Macbeth, the writers showcase the dual impact of pride in life, suggesting that pride can have both a favorable and detrimental effect on success. On the one hand, both writers clearly reveal the positive impact that pride can have on humanity. After Root died, and newspapers were questioning the fair, Burnham had within him “a desire to cry out that he, Burnham, had been the engine driving the design of the fair; that he was the partner who had propelled the firm of Burnham & Root to greater and greater achievement” (Larson 108). The newspapers had described Root as the guiding force, and proclaimed that the fair would fail after his death, and Burnham took personal offense to this because he believed that he was the greater one. Burnharm’s pride was clearly hurt, but in this scenario, this was actually a great thing. Organizing the fair was a challenging task, and Burnham’s pride provided him with the extra motivation, and would only help him to accomplish his goal. In Macbeth, Shakespeare demonstrates the same effect of pride through Macbeth’s letter to Lady Macbeth about his encounter with the witches. Macbeth writes, “[t]his have I thought good to deliver thee, my dearest partner of kindness, that thou might’st not lose the dues of rejoicing” (Macbeth 1.5. 10-13). In his letter Macbeth addresses his wife with love, and shows pride in having her by his side. Although the feeling of pride is confined to a few lines, those lines are symbolic of the relationship between Macbeth and his wife. Macbeth’s pride in his wife creates a bond that allows the two to complement and support each other, which is crucial to Macbeth's ascension to the throne. On the back of their strong relationship, Lady Macbeth is willing to assist in the killing of King Duncan. Just like Larson, Shakespeare shows the reader the power of pride as a motivator, and the positive impact it can have on completing one’s goals. Even though both writers exhibit the benefits of having pride, they juxtapose those positives with the dangers. When Burnham revealed that he preferred to work with eastern architects while creating the fair, it hurt the pride of the local architects of Chicago. Of the architects, “none [were] from Chicago, even though the city took great pride in its architectural pioneers… Burnham failed to realize that Chicago might see his choices as betrayal” (Larson 78). In this situation, pride has the opposite effect on Burnham as it does later when Root dies. It results in Burnham being essentially alienated from the other architects of the city, which only hinders the progress of the fair. Logically, one can assume that having the support of less architects made Burnham’s job harder because there were less minds collaborating and less resources at Burnham’s disposal. In Macbeth, the audience is also exposed to the harsh realities that pride can bring. This is especially evident when Macbeth is chickening out of killing Duncan, and Lady Macbeth convinces him to continue with the murder by attacking his pride. She says to Macbeth, “[a]rt thou afeard to be the same in thine own act and valor as thou art in desire?” (Macbeth, 1.7. 43-45), and “[w]hen you durst do it, then you were a man” (Macbeth, 1.7. 56). In the span of a few short moments, Lady Macbeth calls Macbeth a coward and attacks his manhood. The result is immediate; after deliberating and almost abandoning the plot, Macbeth agrees to carry it out, illustrating a pitfall of pride to the reader. In both texts, the writers incorporate positive and negative effects of pride, which serves to display the complicated essence of pride in humanity.