Every day the weather changes, in a rather random manner, and society does not pay any attention. In The Devil in the White City, however, Erik Larson strategically uses weather to represent the successes and failures of Burnham and the World’s Columbian Exposition. In the early stages of the planning for the exposition, Burnham and his partners acknowledged they needed to create a fair that would be greater than the one in Paris, which would require a lot of spending. But on October 25th, 1890, Chicago heard of global financial panic, and stocks plummeted. Erik Larson describes that, “[i]n Chicago, before the news arrived, brokers spent a good deal of time discussing the morning’s strange weather. An unusually ‘murky pall’ hung over the city” (60). The news of the panic was terrible news for Burnham. He was already struggling to find a suitable location for the exposition, and the financial uncertainty only added to the list of problems. Burnham, and the rest of Chicago, were prideful, and he wanted to make sure that he created a fair more extravagant than that of Paris. This would not be possible without the ability to spend a lot of money, so Larson symbolizes the bad news and potential failure of the fair with the bad weather on the day that the news is received. After assembling his architect team, Burnham visited Jackson Park with them to scope out the area for the fair. Burnham said, “it was one of those cold winter days… [t]he sky was overcast with clouds and the lake covered with foam” (94-95). At the time of the visit, the park was in bad shape. It was described as a desolate, treeless, colorless, and barren place. The architects were stunned and taken aback when they truly realized the state of Jackson Park, and the struggle that the location would bring, and Larson reflected that feeling of despair in the dark and gloomy weather on that day. Although Burnham had many failures, he did have success while building the fair, particularly on dedication day. Larson describes, “[s]hafts of sunlight struck through the rising mist of human breath”. After months of hard work, set backs, and stress, Burnham finally reaped some of the rewards for his work. The triumph of dedication day is one of his proudest moments, and Larson symbolizes Burnham’s pride and happiness through the sunny weather.