Code of Ethics
        Despite the complexities and controversies within society today, there still exists an underlying responsibility to remain moral as human beings. But how can one be moral? The answer lies in morality, which is “a system of rules for guiding human conduct and principles for evaluating those rules” (Tavani 29). These moral systems must be public, informal, rational, and impartial, and the rules of the system should be derived from the values of society (Tavani 31). In this paper, I will first forecast my professional trajectory, and then I will dictate my ethical philosophy. Finally, I will use my ethical philosophy to define a code of ethics that can serve as a guide throughout my professional career. This code of ethics will allow me to uphold the aforementioned system of morality in my life.
        In my career, I want to become either a full-stack developer or a machine-learning engineer. In this role, I may reach a point where I lose interest in my work, or the company may have goals that do not align with my own. There will be instances where I will have to act as a leader on a team or communicate across groups. For these ethical scenarios and more, following a framework will ensure that I continue to operate within a moral system.
My philosophical theory of ethics centers on virtue ethics, which is based on character development and forming habits that develop good traits (Tavani 54). The definition of good character traits is vague, due to cultural relativism, the idea that different cultures have different views on moral behavior (Tavani 40). However, I will assert that certain principles are universal, invoking moral objectivism (Tavani 42). In my philosophy, these principles are the virtues of humility, integrity, kindness, wisdom, and diligence. I believe that by following these five virtues, character-based ethics is the most effective at upholding morality. 
This ethical theory also serves as a superset of the others. Utilitarianism, for instance, attempts to produce the greatest amount of social good (Tavani 44). Integrity and diligence allow for things to get accomplished in society, while wisdom, kindness, and humility increase the likelihood that the outcome benefits the most people. Therefore, these virtues should result in accomplishments that benefit the most people, the definition of utilitarianism. Deontology suggests that humans are obligated to do what is good for society (Tavani 48). One cannot be humble, kind, honest, and do something bad for society, because the action would contradict the traits. Furthermore, a wise person who analyzes a situation and concludes that they should act would surely do so. Therefore, always doing good deeds and always acting when necessary leads to an outcome where humans fulfill their obligation to do good, the concept of deontology. Rights-based theories of ethics are also fulfilled because kindness forces the recognition and upholding of natural rights (Tavani 53).
Finally, my philosophical theory can be used to create a code of ethics to guide my professional work.
1. I will work hard, acknowledge my limitations, and continue to learn so that I can overcome them (“The Oath”).
This principle is rooted in the virtues of diligence, humility, and integrity. From a deontological perspective, diligence and hard work is a prima facie duty (Tavani 50). In the fast-evolving world of technology, however, diligence is not enough because new ideas develop every year. One has to be humble and realize that one cannot be complacent, and instead be honest about their ability and continue to improve. In this case, following my virtue-based ethical theory will lead to long-term success.
2. I will seek and accept comments, questions, and criticism from peers and stakeholders impacted by my work.
This principle draws upon the virtues of humility, integrity, and wisdom. In programming, there are typically many hands collaborating, and real-world people will use the finished products. Therefore, it is wise to stay humble and communicate with others so that the big picture stays clear. In the professional world, this could include code reviews, asking questions on Slack, or meeting with managers or clients to clarify misunderstandings. Acting based on virtue ethics will end up following the philosophy of act utilitarianism and ensure that the greatest number of people receive the greatest good (Tavani 46).
3. I will respect the work of others and treat them as equals.
This principle is based upon the virtues of humility, wisdom, and kindness. In any situation that arises in the workplace, every opinion will be heard no matter the person or their role, and everyone will be given a fair shot at success. This may become especially relevant in situations with bad teammates, a rude manager, or a frustrating client. With this rule, I am using virtue ethics as a vehicle to guarantee the natural rights of respect, equality, and fair treatment that correspond with rights-based theories.
4. I will remember that although I work with machines, everything should be done from the perspective of humanity.
This principle revolves around wisdom and kindness. With the evolution of AI, it is extremely easy to replace humans with automation, but this guideline encourages one to slow down and sincerely think about the effects from a humanitarian perspective. How will replacing a human impact their life, family, and happiness? Are there certain situations in which the nuances that only humans perceive are needed? These questions force people to realize that profits must sometimes be sacrificed for the greater good of humanity. Again, virtue ethics are being used to protect the natural rights that all humans are given in rights-based ethical theories.
5. I will do my best to ensure that my work provides a net positive to society.
This principle combines the virtues of integrity, wisdom, and kindness to push the utilitarian way of thinking. It can become especially relevant when evaluating a company that has controversial practices, such as defense contractors that make lethal autonomous weapons or industrial manufacturers that pollute the environment. This rule is particularly useful because it can be used to argue both for and against working at these places, depending on the reasoning.
The code of ethics I described is rather vague, but this is intentional. The framework should be just that - a frame of reference that is meant to serve as a guide rather than an exhaustive set of rules that capture every scenario. The reality is that new ethical dilemmas will continue to arise, and the success of society in navigating these dilemmas will depend on its ability to adapt and use what currently exists and apply it in a new context to ultimately do what is best for humanity.