Where do clothes come from? How are the diamonds that are found in expensive jewelry mined from the ground? Who gathers the cocoa beans used to make chocolate? The truth is, these unseen workers are children, forced into situations of child labor. Imagine, “[t]hey wake up every morning [b]efore the light of day. Having to go to work, [t]here's no time for play. They're treated unfairly, [a]nd being paid low wages. Paid less than adults, [b]ecause of their ages” (“Child Labor Is a Crime :(.”). Unbeknownst to many adults, many popular industries in the world today are reliant on child labor, with the exploitation mainly occurring in Africa and Asia. At first, one would not notice the issue with such labor because the connotation of “child labor” does not immediately appear to be negative. After all, children in the U.S. often “work” by doing household chores or mowing lawns for neighbors, and it is common for teenagers to find a part-time job. In many parts of the world, however, child labor implies something much darker. Although some argue that child labor improves economic conditions, it does more harm than good, and the exploitation of children in such a manner is morally incorrect and government intervention is required to solve the global labor crisis. 
	At first glance, the facts seem to suggest that child labor is appealing in the short-run, but the long-run economic impact on the participants outweighs the limited number of positive aspects. According to the International Labour Organization (ILO), “child labour increases households’ income and probability of survival” (Galli). In cases of poverty, a large contributor to child labor, families often send their children to work in the belief that maximizing the income is the best way to pull the family out of poverty. Although the idea that more income from child labor improves quality of life seems like a logical conclusion, the assumption is unfounded and only takes the immediate benefits of child labor into account, while ignoring the opportunity cost of working. The fact of the matter is that in most cases of child labor, children work at the expense of schooling. Edmonds and Theoharides, of Dartmouth College and Amherst College respectively, explain in their paper about the economics of child labor that the resulting reduced education significantly limits the job opportunities for those same children as adults: “child laborers become adults with children who are also child laborers” (Edmonds and Theoharides). At first glance, child labor is perceived to allow people to earn money for longer periods of their lives, thus maximizing net worth, but this line of reasoning is false. Child laborers are forced to work in unskilled labor as adults due to their lack of education, which generally results in lower paying jobs than peers who were schooled. Consequently, the child laborers become adults who remain in poverty, and their children are faced with the same situation that drove the adults into child labor. The system is seen as a means to escape poverty, and yet, affected families are never liberated from their financial struggle. Therefore, it is logical to question the necessity of child labor from the perspective of the victims. After all, there appears to be no incentive to work as a child when the job does not solve the one problem that it exists to solve in the first place. The microeconomic evidence firmly suggests that the current system of child labor must be replaced in order to provide affected famillies with the best hope for their future. Furthermore, even if the scope of the impact is expanded from the microeconomic to the macroeconomic level of the host country, the jobs created by child labor remain shadowed by its adverse effects. A report created in 2001 by the ILO reveals that the presence of child labor deters foreign investment, and the practice significantly reduces the accumulation of human capital (Galli), and Edmonds and Theoharides argue that the resulting lack of skilled labor discourages countries from adopting new technologies (Edmonds and Theoharides). The reduction in human capital is particularly harmful to the country because as more and more adults lose their value as workers, they will struggle to find work, which will cause the income inequality in the country to increase. As the ultra rich grow richer, more people will become impovershed, further creating the need for child labor. Moreover, when a country fails to improve technologically, its economy will struggle to grow in the long run due to its relatively outdated means of production, failing to increase the monetary prosperity of the inhabitants. Economic theory and observation support the idea that child labor must be replaced, but the most compelling reasoning is derived from analyzing the health aspect of the labor system. 
When evaluating the morality of child labor, it is extremely important to examine the negative physical and mental repercussions on the impacted children. For instance, the U.S. Department of Labor reports that children working in Yemen are exposed to hazardous conditions as agricultural workers, street vendors, beggars, and domestic servants, among other professions. Some children are even trafficked for labor or sexual exploitation (“TECHNICAL COOPERATION PROJECT SUMMARY.”). Due to the terrible working conditions, some of the tasks leave a lasting physical impact on the children, whether it be soreness, serious injuries and diseases, or the trauma of sexual abuse. Any sensible person should feel uneasy at the idea of enjoying food and cheap clothes at the expense of bodily harm to the workers who produced the goods. Additionally, the process of child labor raises many ethical dilemmas because the system is built on the oppression of children, which is unfair to the victims. Further evidence of the devastating ramifications of child labor comes from the congressional testimony of Charles Kernaghan, the executive director of the Institute for Global Labour and Human Rights, regarding conditions in a toy factory in China. He revealed, “[w]orkers are prohibited from standing up… [i]t is routine for the supervisors to yell and curse at the workers… workers have… to bow their heads despite their humiliation” ("Sweatshop Labor: Are the working conditions at overseas garment factories used by Western companies humane?"). Kernaghan exposes the harsh reality of working at the toy factory, implying that the job puts a mental stress on the workers. He highlights the painful truth in order to spread awareness of the unjust system that people support when they purchase the products that they do. When Kernaghan initially spoke out against impoverished labor in the mid 1990s, rampant discussions followed, but now is the time for action. Critics of the need for change may argue that a large array of jobs today leave the workers with physical or mental stress, but one must remember that two wrongs do not make a right. Besides, looking at the side effects, it is evident that the majority of jobs do not bring about trauma to the degree that child labor does. The children have suffered long enough, and the severe physical and mental fallout of child labor emphasizes the need to solve the global labor crisis.
Fortunately, historical precedent proves that by raising public awareness of the issue, and creating and enforcing government legislation, child labor can be put to an end. Despite its simplicity, telling people about the horrors of child labor can be enough to force change. Case in point: “[u]nder pressure from Congress in 2001, some of the world’s largest chocolatiers — including Nestlé, Hershey and Mars — pledged to eradicate ‘the worst forms of child labor’” (Whoriskey). The members of Congress receive their federal power from the people they represent, and as a result of public disapproval of child labor, Congress was able to coerce major profit-prioritizing firms into changing their practices. In today’s society, where equality among different races and genders is at the forefront of the priorities of the government, the demand to have equality in labor will also generate results, if the case of chocolate serves as any indication. Another important step that will help reduce child labor is the development of labor laws that prohibit the system from existing. The United States has federal legislation, like the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, and state legislation in most states restricts the “employment of minors under 16 in factories and during school hours” (“Child Labor”). Provided the lack of child labor in the United States today, it is apparent that the labor laws work. Contrary to public sensitization, implementing legislation is not as easy as it sounds since many countries in which child labor is prevalent have an unstable government, and people will undoubtedly point to the difficulties in achieving this change as evidence that there are no feasible solutions to the problem. However, the economic and health implications of the system warrant a serious attempt to help the victims in need of it. Solutions to child labor do exist, and they will be very effective if they receive public support. 
The existence of child labor spans the centuries of history, but it must come to an end today. Economically, the practice does not make sense to continue in the long run, regardless if it is analyzed individually or through society as a whole. Coupled with the severe physical and mental side effects, the evidence strongly suggests that measures must be taken to abolish the system. At the end of the day, the child labor crisis comes down to the morals of the human race. Are we willing to exploit vulnerable children and selfishly reap the rewards, or will we choose to do the right thing for the greater good? In order to get an answer to this crucial question, one will need to search deep inside themselves and decide the type of person they truly are. In short, “[c]hild [l]abor is such a crime. Do something about it. Save children from misery; [w]e have to commit” (“Child Labor Is a Crime :(.”). 
