Puddlejumpers: Reasoning and Explanations
        To most people, interacting with strange creatures just 11 inches tall sounds like something straight out of a sci-fi movie. To Ernie Banks, these creatures are a reality. The book Puddlejumpers by Mark Jean and Christopher C. Carlson focuses on the life of thirteen year old teenager Ernie Banks, and how he meets these creatures who reveal a hidden part of his life. I chose to rename the title of Puddlejumpers to The Lost Boy, and I redrew the cover to represent the scene when Ernie was kidnapped by the Puddlejumpers.
        Ernie Banks was born to Russ Frazier, a farmer whose wife died because she lost too much blood during childbirth. Ernie’s birth name was Shawn Frazier, but it was very short lived  because of a species of 11 inch creatures called the Puddlejumpers. They lived underground and they depended on rain, for both making puddles to travel to the surface, and to feed mother earth, who lived underground with them. They were lacking water, and so were on the quest to find a rainmaker. Ernie, then Shawn, was who they deemed fitting. Various Puddlejumpers such as Root and Runnel ventured to the surface to watch him, and also scout the house. One fateful night, the Puddlejumpers Root, Runnel, Buck, Cully, and Chop teamed up to achieve the ultimate task; they kidnapped Shawn Frazier. The first reason why I renamed Puddlejumpers to The Lost Boy was because it fit the most important criteria for a good title, which is that the title causes people to want to read the book. This new title creates a suspenseful mood, and makes the reader want to open the book to find out who the lost boy is, what happened to him, or why he is called so. One of the most important events was when the Puddlejumpers kidnapped Shawn. It is because of this that the rest of the plot narrative is able to occur. Had the mission gone unsuccessful, then Shawn and Russ would have lived a normal life, and the Puddlejumpers could have ceased to exist. However, even though they were successful over a long term scale, the Puddlejumpers almost blew everything. While traveling, they encountered their sworn enemies from The Most Dark, the Troggs. In all the panic and confusion that ensued, they lost track of Shawn, who was picked up by a passing truck driver. Then dropped to an orphanage in Chicago, it was there that his name became Ernie Banks, named after the great Cubs player. Eventually, the Puddlejumpers were able to find Ernie again when he was 13, and he was able to save them and find out that Russ was his real dad. The fact that put me over the deciding hump of keeping the new title as The Lost Boy was that Ernie was lost twice, not just once, by his dad and also by the Puddlejumpers. It was the direct impact to storyline and the suspenseful wording that led me to choose The Lost Boy as the new title for the book Puddlejumpers
        I redrew the cover of Puddlejumpers to show the scene when Ernie is kidnapped by the Puddlejumpers. I did this because this event is the reason that everything else in the book occurs, and is like the leading domino in a domino chain. The kidnapping of Ernie leads to him becoming an orphan living in an orphanage in Chicago. It was the reason his name was changed from Shawn Frazier to Ernie Banks. I also liked this scene because of the small details that I would be able to include. Ernie lived in a small mobile crib at the time, and unknown to Russ was that the crib was given by the Puddlejumpers. Ernie also loved a small crystal acorn, and this is important because it is a symbol, and this symbol is tattooed onto Ernie’s foot by the Puddlejumpers. The little details I would be able to express in the cover along with the significance of the event portrayed was ultimately the reason that I chose to redraw the cover to picture the kidnapping of Ernie Banks.