The Snowman
I decided to portray the quote “The peculiarity of sunrise is to make us laugh at all our terror of the night, and our laugh is always proportional to the fear we have had” (263). I chose this quote because I felt that it was not super simple, and I was able to come up with an unusual way to represent it. The main focus of my creation is the snowman. He is on fire, which is shown as the orange flames on the bottom. But, the scene is split in half; one side shows the snowman on fire at night, while the other side shows the snowman on fire in the day. The premise of the quote I chose is that when someone is scared of something at night, they are equally not scared of it in the day. Therefore, I made the snowman have a split expression. The part of the face on the side of darkness has a frown on the face, because the fire is melting the snowman. Yet, the part of the face on the side of sunlight is smiling. This is because the sunlight is making the snowman oblivious to the fire that is melting it. This is also why I made the fire on the dark side darker than the fire on the light side; the darker color is meant to signify a greater impact on the snowman. I did not have any particular reason to choose markers, I just used them as a way to color in the picture. I did choose the colors according to where they were in the picture. As I mentioned before, I adjusted the color of the fire based on if it was day or not. I also made the grass at night darker green, along with the night sky being pitch black. This was just to show the background colors accurately like they would be in night and day. The project is creative because it is an out of the ordinary way to represent the scene. Rather than doing something simple, such as a human seeing something in the dark but not in the light, I tried to make it deeper by using something that scientifically occurs, everyone will also realize how it works. I find that people find things more interesting if they see something they are familiar with in an unusual way. The picture is accurate to what the quote means because it is showing that while the snowman is getting melted by the flames at night, it is able to ignore it during the day. This is just like how while something seems scary at night, it is never scary during the day.