Dear Mom,
        I had the most tiring day today, and I had my fair share of excitement. I was roughly woken up at 5 in the morning, and it felt like I had only slept for a couple hours, because I had only slept for a couple hours. However, I feel like that is just a small price to pay in exchange for the honor of representing my country. 
If there is one thing I must complain about, it is that there is almost no sanitary hygiene. We don’t take showers, and we don’t change our clothes. There are also many wild animals such as rats. Luckily, I have not endured some of the dirtiest things. My friend, J-Clown Combs, sadly got infected with lice last week, and his hair is very itchy. I can only pray that he does not become worse, as one of my friends, Dez D Destroyer, also got lice and he then got severe pains and high fever, and had to be sent home. Some people are calling these symptoms “Trench Fever”, but there is no official word that they are caused by lice; they may merely be a coincidence. After I got up, I went and manned my usual spot near the front of the Trenches. Every morning we must get up and do this to watch for an attack, and yet everyday it seems less and less likely that anyone will attack so early in the morning. Just to make sure, we always spray our machine guns in front of our trenches to kill anyone who might be there, before we take a break to eat breakfast. Luckily, there seems to be some sort of unofficial truce in the morning, which allows for our breakfast vehicles to arrive and gives us time to eat breakfast. I am thankful, because our experiences would be severely worse without a decent amount of food to start each day. 
After breakfast, while others were on the lookout for attack, I busied myself with chores. First, I repaired some duckboards that got damaged from previous attacks, whether it be holes from bullets or a completely destroyed by a bomb. It rained last night, which was pretty gross. Water accumulated at our feet, and we were very soggy. I was therefore charged with the task of pumping out the water from the trenches.
Snipers from the other country were always positioned during the day, and scoped on our trenches to try to pick some of our people off. After killing one, we found that they were using very advanced bolt-action rifles, which were very deadly and had a much longer range than we had ever seen. Because of this, we rarely attacked during the day, and had lots of free time. Some of my friends chose to occupy their time by sending letters back home, but I prefer to send them at night before sleeping, because it is more private. 
However, even our times resting were always filled with worry. There are some new inventions such the the artillery, which make our life a lot harder. It can fire bombs a long distance away, so even if it seems like we are in the clear, we must be aware at all times. But this does not compare to some other more stealthy and more deadly weapons. Chlorine gas causes painful burning in the throat, and people die by suffocation. Luckily, it only seems to work in certain weather conditions, and so it is not too big of an issue. Our biggest fear is the most deadly weapon of them all: Mustard Gas. It can cause blisters, vomiting, severe bleeding, and damage to our eye. It takes around 12 hours to take effect, but it is colorless, so we won’t know that it is there until someone starts getting symptoms. That’s why I try to carry a gas mask around with me at all times. 
At the end of the day, just before nightfall, I pulled of my biggest accomplishment thus far. I was sitting on a duckboard in my trench, and I managed to snipe an enemy with my bolt-action rifle. It was my first kill, and I feel proud that I actually made an impact on the war. Mostly, the war was pretty stale, and there was only fighting rarely. But at times, the enemy would make a push, using either a plane or a tank. We were able to defend against these pretty well, because we could fire machine guns at the planes and artillery at the tank. 
Overall, my days in this war are not really eventful. There are terrible sanitary conditions, and there is also a widespread lack of sleep. But, despite all this, I am proud to fight in this war and represent my country.