The Exposing of Friar Lawrence
        Romeo and Juliet is one of the most iconic plays of all time, partly because of the creative plot structure created by William Shakespeare in combination with the unexpected ending. But who is really the reason why everything happens in the play? Without a doubt, Friar Lawrence is to blame because of his role in the relationship of Romeo and Juliet, his direct impact in important events, and the lack of concrete evidence to blame other characters. 
        In essence, Friar Lawrence does everything in his power to bring Romeo and Juliet closer together, be it his direct intention or not. At first, Romeo seemed happily in love with Rosaline. The Friar was a father figure to Romeo, which is why Romeo felt a slight peer pressure when the Friar told him off for loving Rosaline. When the Friar learns that Romeo loves Juliet, he gets angry at Romeo, and tells him that he should have stuck with Rosaline. To this, Romeo says “Thou chid’st me oft for loving Rosaline” (II, iii, 82). The Friar responds “For doting, not for loving, pupil mine” (II, iii, 83). Lastly, Romeo tells the Friar “And badest me bury love” (II, iii, 84). Romeo does not like the Friar blaming him for switching from Rosaline to Juliet so quickly. He says that the Friar was the one who did not want Romeo to love Rosaline in the first place. The Friar insists that it was a miscommunication, and that he did not want Romeo to be obsessed with Rosaline, not stop loving her. But Romeo responds to this and says that the Friar did indeed tell him to stop loving Rosaline. Although the Friar’s intention was not to separate Romeo and Rosaline, it was based on what he said that Romeo left her for Juliet; Romeo was already perfectly happy before. Thus, the Friar is at fault for making Romeo want to look for other women, resulting in him meeting Juliet. To make matters worse, the Friar made Romeo and Juliet’s relationship from a side affair to an everlasting bond by marrying them. Romeo and Juliet sneak down to the Friar’s cell, where the Friar tells them “Come, come with me, and we will make short work. For, by your leaves you shall not stay alone till holy church incorporate two in one” (II, vi, 35-37). Before, Romeo and Juliet had a casual relationship, purely out of love. Now, they are almost obligated to stick together and support each other because they are married, which causes massive repercussions later in the play. For these reasons, the Friar must be blamed for bringing Romeo and Juliet closer together, and acting as a catalyst for their love reaction. 
        Friar Lawrence also makes crucial decisions towards the end of the play that increases Romeo and Juliet’s conflicts from what they would have been if he had acted just slightly differently. When Romeo finds out that he will be banished to Mantua, the Friar tells him, “Sojourn in Mantua. I’ll find out your man and he shall signify from time to time every good hap to you that chances here” (III, iii, 171-173). The Friar tells Romeo that he will send his servant, Balthasar, for any news from Verona. However, the Friar does not live up to this, because he sends the news about the plan via Friar John. Friar John cannot make it to Mantua, because he is not allowed to travel there to prevent the spread of the plague. Meanwhile, Balthasar finds out about Juliet’s death and tells Romeo, prompting Romeo to come back to Verona to kill himself. If Friar Lawrence had just stuck with what he said he would do and sent the news of the plan with Balthasar, then Romeo would have known that Juliet’s death was fake, and would not have killed himself. Additionally, Friar Lawrence created a disaster waiting to happen when he made the plan to reunite Romeo and Juliet. The Friar says to Juliet, “Take thou this vial, being then in bed, and this distillèd liquor drink thou off, when presently through all thy veins shall run a cold and drowsy humor, for no pulse shall keep his native progress, but surcease. No warmth, no breath shall testify thou livest. The roses in thy lips and cheeks shall fade to paly ashes, thy eyes' windows fall like death when he shuts up the day of life” (IV, i, 96-104). The Friar’s brilliant plan is to have Juliet fake her own death, which obviously had many flaws. The poison might not have worked, or what if the Capulet’s decided to start a new tradition of cremating their dead? The most glaring flaw was that Romeo might not find out about the plan, which is exactly what happened. The Friar could most likely have thought of a simpler plan, such as having a staged kidnapping of Juliet, which could be just as convincing and leave a lot less up to chance. Despite this, the Friar can still make up for some of the problems he caused by preventing Juliet from killing herself. The Friar bids to Juliet, “Stay not to question, for the watch is coming.
Come, go, good Juliet. I dare no longer stay” (V, iii, 170-171). Rather than comforting Juliet and escorting her to safety, he leaves the Capulet’s vault for his own means, essentially allowing Juliet to kill herself. Consequently, the Friar can be blamed for the events in Romeo and Juliet for making the worst decisions in the most critical situations. 
        Although many other characters from the play appear to have compelling arguments about why they are to be blamed, their arguments can be easily disproved. One common thought is to blame Benvolio, for saying “At this same ancient feast of Capulet’s sups the fair Rosaline whom thou so loves with all the admired beauties of Verona. Go thither, and with unattainted eye compare her face with some that I shall show, and I will make thee think thy swan a crow” (I, ii, 84-89). Primarily, Benvolio is instructing Romeo to go to Capulet’s party and look at pretty women. However, this cannot be used as direct evidence to link Benvolio behind the events in the play. His actions are as common as a parent telling their child to look for someone to marry; Benvolio is simply trying to help Romeo for the future. Other people often say that the Friar must not be blamed, and reference the lines where the Friar tells Romeo “But come, young waverer, come, go with me, in one respect I’ll thy assistant be, for this alliance may so happy prove to turn your households' rancor to pure love” (II, iii, 89-92). The Friar’s main logic behind the marriage is to end the feud between the Montagues and the Capulets. Yet, one cannot remove all the blame from the Friar just because of one thing he said. Actions speak louder than words, and all of the misdeeds that the Friar did concerning the conflicts in Romeo and Juliet cannot be ignored. Lord Capulet is also a popular choice, because he is trying to force Juliet to marry Paris. Yet, this is a skewed argument, and a case of dramatic irony. While the audience knows that Juliet is in love with Romeo, she never tells her parents. So, is it really fair to blame Lord Capulet for something that he was not even aware of? No, because it cannot be determined what his reaction would have been had Juliet told him; he could have quite possibly decided to end the feud for the sake of his daughter’s marriage. Hence, Friar Lawrence is the only character who can be legitimately blamed for the events that transpire within Romeo and Juliet.
        The Friar must ultimately be blamed for everything that occurs in Romeo and Juliet. His guidance of Romeo and Juliet’s relationship to its summit and failure to act in pivotal parts of the story present clear arguments to indict him. When taken in combination with the lack of substantial evidence to accuse the other characters of the play, it can be seen that the Friar was the only one who could have consistently made a big difference throughout the play. Despite the good intentions that the Friar acted upon, blame must always be given according to what happened, and not according to what could have been.