The Lasting Impact of the Manhattan Project
        World War II is often thought of as a dark time in the world based on what Hitler‘s goal was against the Jews. This is completely accurate, but this point of view is often misleading because it undermines the importance of the events that transpired; rather than looking at its events objectively, people get caught up in the casualties. The Manhattan Project is the epitome of the idea that the people’s opinion of World War II causes everyone to analyze its impacts unfairly. The project cost around 20 billion dollars to fund during four years in World War II, and led to the creation and the first uses of the atomic bomb in Hiroshima and Nagasaki (Cohen 110-111). Though originally supposed to provide a military advantage to the US in World War II, the Manhattan project accelerated the growth of technology by unlocking the hidden potential of nuclear energy and led to ground-breaking discoveries in both biology and medicine.
        A lot of the energy in the world today is nuclear energy, produced by nuclear reactors. Nuclear energy dates back to the 1930s, becoming relevant with the discovery of nuclear fission in Germany in 1938. Many physicists at the time guessed correctly of the potential of nuclear energy, and one of the main fields that they theorized it to be useful in was electricity. Following the discovery of nuclear fission, in 1939 and 1940, places in Europe and the United States researched the necessary conditions to create nuclear reactions with uranium. This eventually led to large scale efforts such as the Manhattan Project (Merriman and Winter). The project led to the development of nuclear weapons, but it was the concept of how the reactors in the weapons worked to release so much energy that was the key in harnessing nuclear power. While the US was working on using nuclear energy for war, other countries looked at its other uses. Some French scientists left France to go to Britain and Canada to work on developing heavy water plants. In the Maud Report in 1941, Britain concluded that nuclear reactors could be used instead of coal and oil to produce electricity (Merriman and Winter). The first reports of nuclear power plants generating electricity points to the soviets in the early 1950s. In 1953, US president Eisenhower created the Atoms for Peace program, which shifted the country’s focus from using nuclear power for the military to using it for peaceful purposes. This led to countries around the world becoming more open and revealing their plans and designs for nuclear power, and even slightly reduced some tension. By 1964, there were 15 nuclear power plants, 12 in Europe and 3 in the United States, with a total capacity of 500 megawatts (Merriman and Winter). The capacity grew exponentially, to 100 gigawatts by the late 1970s and 300 gigawatts by the late 1980s, but after the late 1980s it slowed down; the capacity only increased to 360 gigawatts by 2003. As of 2004, Europe had increased its reactor count from 12 to 204 (Merriman and Winter). Nuclear power is a staple in our energy supply today, and although the goal is to eventually switch to cleaner energy for the future, the impact of nuclear energy on our world cannot be denied.
        Unexpectedly, the fields of biology and medicine have also been impacted by the research done during the Manhattan Project. Nuclear reactors also provided a way for scientists to produce different radioactive isotopes of different substances (“Insights with Angela Creager”). Doctors were able to harness these isotopes for medicinal purposes, both for detecting some illnesses and for curing others. For example, one isotope created was Cobalt-60, which is commonly used in the gamma rays for the radiation method of treatment of cancer (Hotchkiss). Stable isotopic forms of materials were also discovered, which became essential in the understanding of natural processes in biochemistry and ecology. The stable isotopes would be used as tracers and follow through the process being studied. This is done by replacing a certain atom by a radio-labeled atom, which can be tracked as it goes through the processes that that compound undergoes (“Insights with Angela Creager”). By using this method, biologists were able to get a deeper understanding of the basic processes of life, such as photosynthesis. Researchers did this by adding the radioisotope Carbon-14 into an algae growing in a glass exposed to bright light, and examined how the carbon passed through all the processes taking place. Similarly animals, and eventually humans, would be fed food with different minerals such as iron, demonstrating how the human body uses iron. Radiotracing also showed the flow of energy in ecosystems and how different organisms interacted with one another (Hotchkiss). On the whole, the discoveries made during the Manhattan Project led to discoveries in biology and medicine that are crucial to life today.
Overall, the Manhattan Project was instrumental in the exponential development to the practices in the fields of biology and medicine and laid the foundation for the nuclear power that the world relies on today. The creation of various isotopes produced cures and radio-tracing allowed scientists to understand life to a greater extent. Meanwhile, the classified experiments and research done during the manhattan project led to the creation of the Nuclear Reactor, one of the greatest inventions of the twentieth century. These inventions, so vital for our world today, would have been impossible had it not been for the work done during the Manhattan Project.