The Real George Milton
        Simply put, George Milton killed his best friend. However, this fact does not describe George fairly. Throughout the book Of Mice and Men by John Steinbeck, George helps Lennie Small overcome barriers caused by his mental disability. Their relationship was such that if Lennie were the president, then George would have been part of the the secret service. These two friends shared a bond beyond friendship, and were the definition of brothers from different mothers. Struggling in the Great Depression just like everyone else, George and Lennie only had each other, and George helped Lennie in countless ways. George was caring and determined, but his leadership and ability to take charge was what separated him from other people. Given the extremely difficult task to take care of Lennie, George was forced to be more than the average person.
        George Milton shows his caring and compassion for Lennie in subliminal and discreet ways that one cannot identify without digging deeper. As George and Lennie are making their way to the ranch for work, George is explaining to Lennie all of the ways that Lennie is a pain to him, and provides various examples. George gets partly angry, which appears to portray him as a hurtful person. But Lennie knows better, and he starts claiming that he will leave George. George’s hidden feelings are revealed when he responds, “No-look! I was jus’ foolin’, Lennie. ‘Cause I want you to stay with me… I want you to stay with me, Lennie. Jesus Christ, somebody’d shoot you for a coyote if you was by yourself. No, stay with me” (13).  Lennie knows that George really cares about him, and so he pushes the subject to emotionally blackmail George. George gives in, and it is his lack of resistance that proves that he cares deeply for Lennie. When George and Lennie reach the bunkhouse at the rank, they are quickly questioned by the boss. The boss is curious why George is talking for Lennie and taking so much trouble for him. George replies, “He’s my… cousin. I told his old lady I’d take care of him. He got kicked in the head by a horse when he was a kid. He’s awright. Just ain’t bright. But he can do anything you tell him” (22). George is not really Lennie’s cousin, nor did Lennie did actually get kicked by a horse. George promptly lies to the boss, all to defend Lennie. He was putting himself at risk as there could be severe consequences if the boss found out he was lying, but George was willing to put that aside and do the right thing to help Lennie. It is these kinds of acts of selflessness shown by George repeatedly that highlight his empathy for Lennie. George’s greatest sympathy is shown at the end of the book when Lennie is being chased by Curley and the ranchers because he accidentally killed Curley's wife. They want to kill Lennie, and likely may torture him first too. Realizing this, George understands what he must do. He remembers how a fellow bunkmate, Candy, told him that he felt extremely bad that he did not kill his dog himself. Remembering this, “George raised the gun and steadied it, and he brought the muzzle of it close to the back of Lennie’s head. The hand shook violently, but his face set and his hand steadied. He pulled the trigger” (206). At first, this may seem like a terrible event, and proof that George was a bad person. But after analyzing this situation and also taking what Candy said into account, it is understood why George did what he did. Lennie was already mentally disabled. George wanted to make sure he was the last person Lennie saw, and that their dream to own a ranch was the last thing they talked about. Simply, George was just trying to put Lennie out of his misery in a peaceful way, and what he did created the most favorable outcome to their drastic situation. George’s compassion is the driving force in his relationship with Lennie, and the reason that they are so close with one another.
        In addition, George displays his determination in crucial events that shape both his and Lennie’s journey together. George and Lennie were supposed to get dropped off to the bunkhouse where they are going to work, but their bus driver dropped them off far away. George complains, “Too god damn lazy to pull up. Wonder he isn't too damn good to stop in Soledad at all. Kicks us out and says ‘Jes’ a little stretch down the road.’ I bet it was more than four miles. Damn hot day” (4). George describes their miserable situation, having to walk more than four miles, on a hot day nonetheless. But instead of giving up or trying to go back or find a new job, George keeps ploughing on, and reaches the bunkhouse eventually. Throughout all of this he has to take care of Lennie, which must be mentally taxing on him. It is this determination that allows George to be so successful in achieving what is best for himself and Lennie. Frequently, Lennie asks George to recount their future farm, where they would live and Lennie would be able to tend rabbits. On one such instance at the bunkhouse, Candy overhears and responds, “‘Tell you what-’ He learned forward eagerly. ‘S’pose I went in with you guys. Tha’s three hundred an’ fifty bucks I’d put in’” (59). At this point, Candy is basically a stranger to George; they have not had many interactions. If George did not wholeheartedly believe that their dream was possible, he would have rejected Candy’s offer. But George’s determination to try to get that farm helps him to realize the contribution that Candy can provide, and so he allows Candy to join in. George and Lennie’s dream is like a hunger, and George accepts Candy as a possible food for their stomach. George showcases the ultimate form of determination when he displays it for Lennie. Despite George’s warnings, Lennie got too close to Curley’s wife and accidentally killed her. In fear, Lennie ran away to the bushes where George told him to hide if he got into trouble. George hears of what happened and tells Candy, “Guess… we gotta tell the… guys. I guess we gotta get ‘im an’ lock ‘im up. We can’t let ‘im get away. Why, the poor bastard’d starve” (94). George’s hesitation while talking is clearly noticeable, and proves that he is thinking. Even though Lennie killed Curley’s wife, George is concerned for him, and is determined to think of a way to save Lennie from both himself and the wrath of Curley.  The determination shown by George has an enormous impact on decisions and actions that mold his journey with Lennie
        Finally, George’s natural ability to take charge of any situation separates him from the average person. The reason that George and Lennie have to find a new job is because of their last job in Weed, where Lennie is accused of raping a girl, even though he only grabbed her dress by accident. That got them both into a lot of trouble, so this time George warns Lennie, “if you jus’ happen to get in trouble like you always done before, I want you to come right here an’ hide in the brush” (15). George learned from the last time in Weed, so he took precautions to avoid getting into trouble like that again. He took control of a possible conflict and set himself and Lennie up to be able to escape should Lennie cause a problem again. One climactic scene was when Lennie got into a tussle with the boss’ son Curley, the last person with whom he should have. At first, Curley was bullying Lennie, and seemed to be picking Lennie apart mentally. However when George noticed his best friend was in trouble, he assumed control and shouted, “Get ‘im, Lennie!” (63). George was able to recognize what was going on, and he knew that he had to help Lennie because Lennie was getting confused. He became the leader he could be, and provided the instruction and motivation Lennie required to overcome Curley, leading to Lennie breaking Curley’s hand. It was George’s leadership in crucial moments like these that saved him and Lennie from situations other people would have gotten into.
        George Milton has many qualities that leave a lasting impact, due to how much his actions intertwine with Lennie's. His leadership helps Lennie in times of uncertainty, his determination and willpower produces success in their goals, and his empathy for Lennie creates a bond that lasts for a lifetime. Whether it was while working hard for a better future, or helping his best friend Lennie Small, George Milton was a very unique person. He was the mold of the type of person required to be successful, and it was because of George being the way he was that both him, and more importantly Lennie, were able to lead a happy life in poor times.