In the preface to her book Word by Word: The Secret Life of Dictionaries, lexicographer Kory Stamper discusses the process that she uses to compile a dictionary. Through meaningful imagery and logical explanation, Stamper reveals the immense difficulty of the process and complex thinking that she undergoes while making a dictionary.


Stamper starts off her preface by explaining the usage of language, and particularly goes into detail about how defining language has developed throughout human life. She explains that language begins with someone’s explaining the universe around them to a rubbery blob of drooling baby, then progresses to that blob understanding the connection between the sound coming out of Mama’s or Papa’s mouth--’cup’-- and the thing Mama or Papa is pointing to” (Stamper). Basically, Stamper wants the reader to recall how they first learned language. Stamper points out that it was very simple, and that we relied on very basic visuals and explanations. This comparison is meant to give contrast into how she compiles dictionaries in her work. She wants to show how simple definitions are early in life, and then she later goes into detail about how writing dictionaries is much harder. Stamper continues the visualization about learning language to show the reader how definition develops. She remarks, “[w]e learn to pair the word ‘cat’ with ‘meow’; we learn that lions and leopards are also called ‘cats’” (Stamper). Essentially, this follow up example demonstrates to the reader the complexity of defining things. Through this example about cats, Stamper wants the audience to realize the true difficulty in writing dictionaries. She wants them to wonder things like “how do you actually define something”, and “where do you draw the line between definitions”. This phrase is also a contrast to her first example of how language develops, and it helps the reader further understand the struggle of her job.


Stamper closes out her preface by explaining the difficult process by which she defines words. She writes about lexicographers, “[t]hese people expend enormous amounts of mental energy, day in and day out, to find just the right words to describe ‘ineffable,’ wringing every word out of their sodden brains… [ignoring] the puddle of useless words accumulating around their feet” (Stamper). Stamper attempts to convey the difficulty of her task by pressing upon them the sheer volume of words. She makes them think about the possibilities; there are so many different phrases using synonyms that can be used to define a word. She wants the reader to realize the amount of mental energy that people like her use to craft each definition. The explanation attempts to use logical reasoning to describe the process and its difficulty to the audience. Stamper further explains, “[w]hat appears to be a straightforward word ends up being a linguistic fun house of doors that open into air and staircases that lead to nowhere” (Stamper). At this point, Stamper wants to end her preface by bringing up the added struggle in defining words with more ambiguous meanings. She wants the audience to understand that her work is not straightforward, and for words that have unclear or multiple meanings, even more effort and time is required to craft the perfect definition. This revelation by Stamper serves the same effect as putting icing on a cake. It perfectly caps off her argument that it is very difficult to write dictionaries. Throughout her preface, Stamper provides many reasons, but just as the reader thinks that the preface is ending, she lays down possibly the biggest obstacle in her work. English speakers take for granted that they naturally understand the differences between words that are similar in either pronunciation, spelling, or meaning. As a lexicographer, however, Stamper must ignore her natural understanding and define the ambiguous words.


Throughout her preface, Kory Stamper uses both examples that the audience can relate to and a logical explanation of her tasks to explain to the readers of her book the difficult nature of her job of writing dictionaries as a lexicographer.