The Impact of Charles Lindbergh
In the world today, airplanes are the most popular form of long distance travel. Millions of people fly every day, whether it be for work or for vacations. A century ago, however, aviation was in its infancy, and much of the population was unaware of its true potential. It was a toy for the rich people to have fun with, and was never used in massive quantities until World War I. In the 1920’s, Charles Lindbergh helped drive the modernist revolution by helping introduce aviation into American society through his use of the airplane in entertainment and industry. 
Lindbergh was one of many aviation enthusiasts who used the airplane as a creative source of income in the entertainment business. Having just finished fighting in the First World War, the United States had a surplus of both unemployed fighter pilots and Curtiss JN-4 “Jenny” biplanes, which only cost a few hundred dollars to buy in the post war period (“Aviation”). Increased access to planes due to the cheaper price combined with the lack of regulation at the beginning of the 1920’s allowed the barnstorming industry to develop. There were two primary types of barnstormers: stunt pilots and aerialists. Stunt pilots performed loop-the-loops, barrel rolls, spins, and dives in front of awed spectators, many of whom had never even seen a plane before (Onkst). Lindbergh himself was an aerialist, and performed acts such as wing walking, dressing up in costume, stunt parachuting, and midair plane transfers (Onkst). Lindbergh’s signature act was to wear a parachute while wing walking, then end his show by floating down to the crowd. Similar acts, such as Eddie Angel’s “Dive of Death”, became so famous that barnstorming became the subject of many Hollywood movies (“Aviation”). The use of the airplane in such a way was unprecedented, and it made the whole country look towards the sky. It brought a new twist to entertainment, and created a lot of buzz in the air. It was said at the time that “the Gate’s Flying Circus turned out more famed pilots than the Army and Navy put together” (Onkst). They were larger than life celebrities, taking advantage of the new entertainment. Innovators such as Charles Lindbergh found new ways to make money while having fun, but not everyone was pleased. Many of the traditionalists were quick to point out that while many barnstormers did well financially, others failed to make a profit. At the time, the lack of adequate airplane infrastructure made it difficult to find fuel and the right parts for planes (Onkst). Although barnstorming was on the rise, the traditionalists eventually got their way. In response to accidents, safety complaints, and accusations that the barnstorming industry was stealing customers from local pilots, the federal government passed safety regulations in 1927 (Onkst). This essentially ended barnstorming, but Lindbergh realized that the potential of the airplane to change society was only just beginning to be unlocked.
The same year, Charles Lindbergh changed the future of the airplane by completing the first ever solo transatlantic flight. In his historic flight, Lindbergh travelled more than 3,600 miles in 33.5 hours from New York City to Paris. In addition to fame and glory, Lindbergh also received the Medal of Honor and the Distinguished Flying Cross from President Calvin Coolidge (Redd). What really changed the country, however, was what Lindbergh decided to do with his fame. He spent the rest of 1927 touring the U.S., travelling 22,350 miles and visiting 75 cities. On his tour, Lindbergh promoted the airplane and preached its potential. As a result of his visits, cities began to develop airport infrastructure and the airplane rose in popularity (Bishop). Aviation stocks greatly increased in value, and by the end of the 1920’s there were 44 scheduled U.S. airlines, including American, Delta, and United (“Air Transport Industry”). Through his incredible feat Lindbergh single-handedly changed the mindset of most Americans and their confidence in air travel grew. In 1928, there were 60,000 paying airline passengers. One year later, that number grew to 170,000, along with 3 million private plane travellers (Bishop). Essentially, Lindbergh sparked the creation of airplane infrastructure in American society and the rise of the commercial airline industry, an industry that everyone in the world depends upon today. 
Towards the end of the 1920’s, Lindbergh focused on refining the airmail industry. The first airmail route had already opened in 1918 from New York to Washington D.C., and that service began to operate in both the day and the night starting in 1924 (“Airmail”). In 1925, Airmail (Kelly) Act was passed, which allowed private airlines to carry mail under contract in single engine, open cockpit planes. The following year the Air Commerce Act was passed, which created the Bureau of Air Commerce that developed airports and radio navigation, and regulated private airlines (“Lindbergh: U.S.”). Despite these acts the airmail industry was still quite inefficient, setting the stage for Lindbergh to improve it just as he improved the commercial business. After his transatlantic flight, Lindbergh became the technical advisor to the President of Pan American. In his role, he created many airmail routes across the carribean, increasing the efficiency of the service. In 1929 he left Pan American to join Transcontinental Air Transport Company, where he created a coast-to-coast air service route which became known as the Lindbergh Line (“Lindbergh U.S.”). Lindbergh dramatically increased the productivity of the airmail industry in the United States and modernized the way that the country communicated and transported goods.
Through his groundbreaking use of the airplane in commerce and recreation in the 1920s, Charles Lindbergh revolutionized American society forever. He improved public infrastructure and replaced existing procedures with more efficient alternatives. Lindbergh was one of the few who realized the greatness of the airplane, and through his actions he was able to modernize the world.