        By the end of the 18th century, the United States was coming to the close of a second industrial revolution. At this time, the whole mainland had been settled and the country was looking for a way to increase its power in the world. As a result, it began to focus on interacting with other countries around the world. Between 1867 and 1918, U.S. foreign policy was mostly reactionary to the events around the world that impacted them.
        The first time that the U.S. foreign policy was really tested was when Spain began to reach its influence into the Caribbean Sea. Naturally, the U.S. was wary of their actions and did not like the fact that they were so close to U.S. soil. When the U.S.S. Maine sank in Havana Harbor, Cuba, the U.S. used it as a reason to go to war with Spain even though there was no proof that Spain had organized its sinking. During the Spanish-American War the United States freed Cuba from Spanish control, and also freed the Philippines to annex them a few years later. Although one could argue that the U.S. was acting imperialistically because it added new territory and expanded its borders, this is not entirely true. The United States did not go to annex land on its own accord. It just happened to play out that way because the U.S. reacted in such a negative way to their sunken ship in Havana. The actions of the U.S. during the Spanish American War were a direct reaction to what they believed the Spanish had done.
        Similarly, the United States negotiated the Open Door Policy as a means of compromise to what other countries were trying to do at the time. European countries wanted to imperialise China and annex parts of it for themselves, just like they had gained land and influence in the past. Coming off of an industrial revolution, the United States had a large production of goods, but only a limited market. The large population of China relative to the United States provided new consumers, and in turn would boost the U.S. economy. It would have been a devastating blow to lose all of the potential customers in China, and it would have really hurt the economy. Therefore, United States Secretary of State John Hay proposed the Open Door Policy which would keep China together and allow fair trade. This policy was made in response to the plans of other countries and was made to protect the interests of the country.
        The last big application of U.S. foreign policy in the early 1900’s was in the First World War. Once the fighting broke out in Europe, the United States could have easily joined in with the purpose of gaining territory and riches. However, sticking with their tendency to be reactionary rather than proactive, the U.S. did not immediately get involved. Only later in the war, after German U-boats began blockading U.S. trade with Britain, did the U.S. think to get involved. Still, even their thoughts were just thoughts until the Lusitania sank in the North Atlantic Ocean near Europe with 128 Americans on board. This was the final straw, and the U.S. finally retaliated and joined the war. The fact that it took years for the United States to get involved, and even then they were essentially dragged into the war by events out of their control, serves as a measure of the strictness by which the U.S. government followed their political ideology of not making the first move. 
        In the late 1800’s and early 1900’s, U.S. foreign policy was very dependent on the events that occurred in the world around them. The country tended to react to actions by other countries, rather than try to fight for their dominance from the onset. In a way, this strategy was very effective because it made the United States look like the nice guy in every situation and allowed them to make many friends on their ascend to the top.