At first, I only looked at the controversy of Japanese Internment from a moral standpoint. From this viewpoint, it is pretty easy to see that the policy was morally wrong. However, I learned the true complications of the situation in a broader context, which helped me to understand why Franklin D. Roosevelt decided to pass Executive Order 9066. The surprise attack at Pearl Harbor put the U.S. in a situation that it had not really been in before (it was the first big foreign terror attack), so FDR was right to want to protect his country. I think that he would have probably preferred to do background checks and only send certain Japanese people to camps, rather than everyone, but this was not possible due to the circumstances. He had to act quickly and pass the order a few months after the attack on Pearl Harbor because there was a lot of uncertainty about Japanese loyalty, and I think that as the President, he could not have risked another attack. One thing that I am still wondering about is if internment could have worked if only part of the population was taken. I don’t personally think that the Nisei, people of Japanese descent that were born in the United States, posed a significant threat. Leaving only the kids would create a problem within society, but I think it may have been possible to budget the amount of people interned, maybe with some sort of rotation through the camps. Maybe 2 weeks in a camp, then 2 weeks at home, then back to the camp, etc. At the end of the day, after learning the facts of the matter, I ultimately agree with what FDR did. I don’t like internment in a moral sense, but I think that it was necessary in the context of history. 
In my opinion, Japanese Internment has a lot of similarities with the Palmer Raids in the late 1910’s/early 1920’s. At this time, the Communist revolution in Russia had completed, and the U.S. public was very scared that Communism would spread to the U.S. because of the Eastern European immigrants (Red Scare). Just like the Japanese after Pearl Harbor, these immigrants faced harsh discrimination at this time simply because of their descent, not because of anything factual. In both cases, some of the immigrants went to prison, although many more Japanese were relocated than Eastern Europeans. In both cases, I feel like the government acted more because of public fear and outcry rather than because it was absolutely necessary to punish the immigrants. The situations were not totally the same, with the key difference being that Japan directly attacked the United States, but they both involved the same unfair treatment towards a particular group of immigrants in the United States.