African American Disadvantages In the Justice System Today
        The 14th amendment to the U.S. constitution was supposed to give all citizens of the United States equal protection under the law, regardless of race. Yet today, 151 years later, four out of ten African Americans are skeptical that the country will ever truly reach racial equality (“Discrimination and Racial Inequality”). In the modern United States, racism is often brushed off as a thing of the past. Even though countless amendments and laws have been made to stamp out racial injustice, little progress has been made to eliminate the prejudice that exists in the minds of many Americans. Unfortunately, people of color are consistently at a disadvantage in life compared to their racial counterparts because of the harsh discrimination and suffering that they face as a result of personal and systematic bias within the criminal justice system.
One of the most controversial aspects of society today is the relationship between people of color and people of authority, namely police officers. The stop-and-frisk tactic is a common strategy that the police uses to track down guilty citizens, and it has already been implemented in big cities such as New York City. Through this tactic, police officers are allowed to pull over cars that they deem to be suspicious (Lenehan). This can cause much inconvenience to the drivers who are getting pulled over. Many of the people on the road are in a hurry, and getting pulled over for no fault of their own can have major repercussions depending on where they need to be. It can ruin special occasions, create unnecessary fits of road rage, and possibly even be a matter of life and death. Moreover, the police are just wasting their time arbitrarily flagging down cars to stop instead of catching criminals or rule breakers in a more efficient way, such as monitoring their speed with a radar gun. It also does not help that they seem to only be catching the people that they want to be guilty. In 2011, the police made 685,724 stops in New York City; but 574,483 of those stops were African American or Latino (Lenehan). At first this may not seem like a big issue, but people’s lives can be altered for the worse because they were chosen to be pulled over and arrested. If the police officer adds a charge to the permanent record of whom they pull over, it will be harder for the victim to achieve success in their future because they will be faced with more resistance when applying for jobs, loans, or anything that is based on some sort of trust. The small act of pulling someone over can set them back dramatically in their life goals. Therefore, because people of color are getting pulled over at a higher rate, they are left at a significant disadvantage in life compared to the white majority. Additionally, the negative interactions with the police can leave mental scarring that can change one’s whole perspective on life. In the book Citizen by Claudia Rankine, the author recounts the experience of one person in a stop-and-frisk situation. She describes from the perspective of the victim, “...you are not the guy and still you fit the description… [t]he charge the officer decided on was exhibition of speed. I was told, after the fingerprinting, to stand naked” (Rankine 108-109). In a sad awakening, the victim realizes that he is being singled out because he fits the stereotypical description of criminals. The victim is subjected to emotional abuse and scarring that is inflicted upon him because of the racial bias that compelled the officer to pull him over. This abuse can cause people of color to be in a weaker mental state compared to whites, which puts them at a disadvantage because they are not necessarily able to act to their full ability. The bias against African Americans can be further proven through the results of a study conducted in the format of a video game. In the study, participants were asked to decide as quickly as possible to shoot an African American or white target. The targets held either a weapon or something that could be mistaken for a weapon. The participants consistently mistook African Americans as being armed when they were not, and thought that whites were unarmed when they actually were (Alexander 106-107). This personal bias translates over to the stop-and-frisk tactic, and is a major cause of police officers arresting people of color at a higher rate. The officers act of predisposed thought and impulse, rather than on the basis of fact and truth. It proves that African Americans are at a disadvantage when it comes to the police because of their race. This disadvantage harms them in the long run by causing repeated inconveniences that can seriously affect their lives. 
Still, one could argue that all of the negative results of the stop-and-frisk policy against people of color are deserved because the police have good reasons for arresting the victims. However, this rationale can be disproven by analyzing the legislature regarding stop-and-frisk, and comparing it with its real world application. The Reasonable Suspicion Standard says that “[a] law enforcement officer may stop and briefly detain a person for investigative purposes if the officer has a reasonable suspicion supported by articulable facts that criminal activity may be afoot, even if the officer lacks probable cause” (Froggé). Despite knowing the rules and procedures that must be followed to detain someone, police officers still choose to pull over people because they are walking in an unusual way or change direction too quickly, and that too at a higher rate for people of color compared to whites (Lenehan). This is clearly an abuse of the power granted to police officers from stop-and-frisk. The officers are making assumptions and guesses, fueled by their personal biases, that end with usually innocent people of color taking the fall. Blatant discrimination is causing African Americans to be disproportionately arrested, and in many cases humiliated and degraded by the officer arresting them. The arrests can cause unfortunate side effects such as the loss of a house, valuables, cars, and possibly even one’s friends, family, and relationships. Others argue that the stop-and-frisk system was a success because the crime rate declined in New York City while it was in effect (Lenehan). While this may be true, one must look at that impact of the tactic on the people its affecting. With all of the aforementioned negative side effects on the valuable lives of people of color, the limited positives of the situation do not outweigh the serious negatives. It is unreasonable to allow discrimination against African Americans to continue because it is leading to a decreased crime rate (statistically). Instead, the community should try to think of alternative systems that uphold the required integrity of the justice system.  Bias within the police system exists, and because of it African Americans are forced to suffer both at the time of arrest and for the rest of their lives, forcing them to exist in a constant position of disadvantage.
The court system also hurts African Americans because of its systematic bias against African Americans. In the 1987 Supreme Court case McCleskey vs. Kemp, the court set the precedent that racial bias in sentencing could not be claimed under the 14th amendment without clear evidence of discriminatory intent (Alexander). The court ruled that McCleskey was eligible for the death sentence and set the path for hundreds of more death sentences in the future for African Americans. Not only does this literally cost the lives of many African Americans, but it also reduces their morale and trust in the country. Now, accused people of color go into trial feeling like they are predetermined as guilty, and that nothing that they say can help. The deprivation of the right to a fair trial is an unnecessary adversity that African Americans must face to have a chance to stay high in society’s ranks. Their hopes are greatly lowered; it is no surprise that 75 percent of all African Americans believe that they are treated unfairly in court (“Discrimination and Racial Inequality”). It also does not help that the Supreme Court is allowing for policies like stop-and-frisk to go into effect, despite the statistical proof of its discrimination. People of color have no trust in the system because it has repeatedly ruled against them. In United States vs Brignoni-Ponce, the Supreme Court ruled that the police are allowed to use race as a factor in determining which motorists to stop (Alexander 131). The Supreme Court is the supreme law of the land, and by allowing such a controversial practice to go into effect, the court essentially chose to allow personal bias to dictate the justice that is given in the country. The methodical bias in the Supreme Court is the underlying cause of all of the trouble that people of color have to face from the police. The court allows for racial bias to flourish in the country today, and until the court sets a new precedent, African Americans will remain at a disadvantageous position in society.
Racial inequality is still present in the United States today, and nowhere is it more apparent than in the criminal justice system. The country’s courts and policemen are filled with thoughts of bias and discrimination that sit white Americans on a pedestal and leave people of color scrambling to overcome the unfair positions in which they are placed. Moving forward, a greater effort must be made to ensure that the country reaffirms itself as a land of equal opportunity for all to profit from, and such a future can only be obtained if the justice system acts with objectivity rather than personal preference. 