The Keys to Success
What do people have to do in life to become successful? Despite it being one of the most asked questions across the country today, there is still no definitive answer. It is generally accepted that a high level of hard work and dedication is required to achieve success. People must gain a sizable advantage over their competition by capitalizing on controllable factors and character traits. However, what truly separates the successful people from the failures are the benefits of uncontrollable factors necessary for success that the less fortunate do not experience. 
Often, the most overlooked part of success is the importance of circumstantial luck that is out of the control of the person seeking to succeed. It is critical to look at the backgrounds and influences of people when trying to analyze how they reached success because they rarely do it independently (Gladwell 16). The background can provide valuable insight into why success was achieved in that particular scenario, and can highlight the demographic diversity across different regions. These differences within society, known as macro-societal changes, happen out of the control of the people in that society. Different areas have different educational systems, a different strength of the economy, conflicts such as war, and factors that affect the demand or the future of a certain career (Melamed). All of the aforementioned influences must happen in favor of the individual if they want to achieve success. It is important to be from the right demographic background, and culture, generation, and family history play a major role in the number of opportunities available (Gladwell 100). Wealthy families tend to raise their kids in an atmosphere of ‘concerted cultivation’, meaning that they would be exposed to many experiences and taught to assert themselves. On the other hand, many poor families let their kids grow naturally on their own, without a lot of guidance (Gladwell 73). The wealthy kids’ exposure benefits them tremendously because it gives them early experience in tackling real life hardships that they have to face when they get older. In the school year, poor kids often work harder and learn more than more privileged kids. Over the summer, however, wealthier kids learn more outside of school than poor kids, which gives them an unfair advantage (Gladwell 164). The kids themselves, however, do not have any say in whether or not they are born into a rich family or a poor one; they must rely on chance and hope that they will be part of the few that have the advantage. Malcolm Gladwell, renowned author of Outliers, says, “[w]e pretend that success is exclusively a matter of individual merit… [t]heir success was not just of their own making. It was a product of the world in which they grew up” (Gladwell 43). Demographics play a massive role in success and most of the time it is not up to the person trying for success to decide which demographics are present in their society. Essentially, success often depends directly on the chance that one gets lucky with what kind of society is surrounding them.
In other cases, success is determined by the amount and quality of the opportunities offered, and these are opportunities that usually present themselves independent of the effort of the person. For example, people can be offered different opportunities depending on the structure of their organization and its job vacancy rates and the amount of jobs offered. These are intermediate-organizational influences, and are categorized as so because they vary depending on the organization; different corporations offer different job ladders and different promotions (Melamed). This can reduce the time one person takes to reach success while slowing down someone else with the exact same abilities just because they happened to be working elsewhere. In large British organizations there tends to be less promotion and salary opportunity, while in large American companies employees gain relatively more promotions (Melamed). Therefore, people in the UK would have less opportunity and be less likely to become successful relative to American workers. In the case of Michael Lewis, author of the book Liar’s Poker, his lucky opportunity came through his seat at a dinner. He describes that one night at a dinner he sat next to the wife of a big Wall Street investment banker, who essentially forced her husband to employ him. He admits that he did not know anything about the bank, and instead just got lucky that the bank succeeded (Frank). Real life stories of success are not straightforward and solely a result of hard work; every story always has a moment in which an opportunity was taken advantage of. Without the seating arrangements being in his favor, Lewis might still have been chasing success today. Lewis says, “All of a sudden people were telling me I was a born writer. This was absurd. Even I could see that there was another, more true narrative, with luck as its theme” (Frank). Lewis recognizes the unique chance that he got, and he simply took advantage of it. If someone else had sat in that seat, they could easily have been the successful one instead of Lewis. His story is just one real life success story of many which started because of a lucky opportunity. Additionally, sport is another field where opportunity plays a major role in achieving success. In Canada, the age cutoff for hockey is at the new year. By no coincidence, the distribution of professional hockey player’s birthdays is skewed towards the beginning of the year, closer to the cutoff. The people born at the beginning of the year have an advantage of almost a year in growth and maturity compared to people born at the end of the year. Talent evaluators see that these players are better, and separate them from an early age, gifting them with the opportunity to specialize their skills (Gladwell 20). The process of getting the opportunity to be developed is based on being born early after the cutoff. The kids themselves cannot do anything about it. The story of Michael Lewis and explanation of why most professional hockey players are born in the beginning of the year have one crucial element in common: both parties are significantly benefited from an opportunity that they received that that was out of their control. 
On the other hand, there are a plethora of people who adamantly claim that the only determinant for success is hard work, and that luck and opportunity do not have a significant impact. According to them it is better to be open-minded, and one’s attitude is the most valuable asset in finding opportunity. Having a large, varied network of contacts is thought of as the best predictor of success (Kleinhandler). This is an incorrect interpretation. The number of people that one is connected to does not matter because unless they are provided with the opportunity to use those contacts to their advantage, the connections are useless. The truth is that successful people hate to see their accomplishments explained away as a result of luck. They prefer to believe that their success was inevitable because of the work that they put in (Frank). They deny their luck because they want their work to be praised, not discredited. When people of different social classes were polled about the main causes of success, there was a very different response based on the social status of the people polled. Poor people believed that having the right connections and startup money mattered the most, while the middle class stressed the importance of education. On the contrary, people with a higher income tended to think that success is only based on hard work (“The Secret of Success”). Although the upper class credited their hard work, this was an incorrect praise due to hindsight bias, which is a term that describes the tendency of humans to think that an event that occurred was predictable even if it wasn’t. A similar tendency is the availability heuristic, which is a shortcut that the mind takes to estimate the likelihood of an event based on how often similar events have occurred (Frank). Because of this, successful people emphasize their hard work; it happened the most, so they remember it the most. Events that are of a disadvantage are easier to remember than events that helped someone. This leads to people overestimating their personal responsibility for their success because they remember the times that they persevered through adversity but not all of the times that they did not need to persevere because of a lucky break benefiting them. They don’t realize the importance of timely events in their life and the impact they have because they happen so rarely.
Even after insightful evidence is provided to support the contrary, there are always people who think that, “you can always rely on your courage, your effort, and your perseverance. You can always substitute effort for skill and experience, secure in the knowledge that, over time, incredible effort will absolutely breed skill and experience. You can always, always, always work harder than everyone else” (Haden). Although one may be initially inclined to say that this is true, by looking at actual examples and statistics one can easily detect the fallacy in the statement. In a sample of 136 managers in England (72 women and 64 men) aged 25-59, the highest managerial grades of success were given to employees who were well educated and had been offered lots of promotion opportunities (Melamed). To support the result, an additional study with a bigger sample of British managers from a wider variety of organizations was conducted. In this case, success was measured based both on a managerial grade and their annual salary. The highest salaries were reached by managers who lived in a rich region and were in a flourishing occupation (Melamed). In both studies, the results clearly showed that the highest amount of success was achieved by people who were fortunate in receiving the opportunities that they did. Opportunity is necessary for success, and proof exists in history. Bill Gates and Steve Jobs are some of the biggest figures of the technology industry of the twenty-first century. Despite their hard work, they would not have been successful if they were not born at the perfect time period for their skill sets: 1955. Their birth dates allowed them to be 20 years old at the time of the invention of the world’s first minicomputer that could be assembled at home. Any older and they would likely have had a family and be unable to afford it, while if they were any younger they would have been restricted by high school (Gladwell 41-42). Their perfect ages, completely determined by chance, thrust them into the perfect position to take advantage of their opportunities. Character traits and controllable aspects of one’s life can only take a person so far towards success. At some point, outside help and good fortune are necessary to overcome the barriers that seem like they cannot be crossed.
Uncontrollable aspects of life are the biggest wildcards in determining success, and they are also the most important in dividing the successful people from the people struggling to fulfill their goals. The only way that society as a whole can succeed is by realizing that success is dependent on opportunity and that everyone in society would need to be provided equal opportunities (Gladwell 171). The simple truth of the matter is that no one can achieve success without profiting from both controllable actions and having uncontrollable incidents occur in their favor.