Perception vs. Reality in The Great Gatsby        
The Roaring Twenties is remembered in United States’ history as a decade of American prosperity and enjoyment. The Great Gatsby, written by F. Scott Fitzgerald in 1925, is one of the most famous representations of the wild time period. It chronicles both the lifestyle synonymous with being American and the hardships and drama that come with that lifestyle. Throughout the book, Fitzgerald uses illusionary descriptions to limit the knowledge and information about Gatsby’s life and his relationships, before exposing the reality of the situation to reveal the cruel and delusional nature of the American Dream. 
Fitzgerald uses character observations to both clarify and confuse the truth about Jay Gatsby’s life. Early in the story Gatsby’s neighbor, Nick, is invited to one of Gatsby’s famous parties. He recalls, “[t]here was music from [Gatsby’s] house through the summer nights… [o]n week-ends his Rolls-Royce became an omnibus, bearing parties to and from the city between nine in the morning and long past midnight” (39). Gatsby is observed to be someone with a high social status, with a love for fun and partying. Nick is in awe of Gatsby’s lifestyle; Gatsby is portrayed as a celebrity in New York whom everyone wants to hang out with and everyone wants to know. It seems obvious at this point that Gatsby knows everyone and lives an extravagant and lavish lifestyle; he gets his fame through his parties. Unfortunately for Gatsby, the truth is that none of those party-goers actually care for him. At Gatsby’s funeral, Nick asks the minister to wait for more people to arrive, “[b]ut it wasn’t any use. Nobody came” (175). Gatsby’s goal in life is to be well known and successful. However, he does not actually make any true friendships, as evidenced by the lack of support at his funeral. Gatsby thinks that he has achieved the American Dream, but the end result is an absence of true friendship and compassion. In reality, Gatsby has nothing except materialistic items. Fitzgerald creates Gatsby’s story in a way that exposes the untrue perception of the American Dream. He shows the misconception that Gatsby has that the American Dream is attainable to all, when in reality it is only a select few that succeed.
Fitzgerald continues to use the same pattern of illusion followed by reality in the development of Gatsby’s affair with Daisy. A critical component of Gatsby’s vision for his life includes the success of his relationship with Daisy, and initially, it seems like Gatsby will achieve his goal. The first time that Gatsby meets Daisy at his house, they seem to immediately familiarize themselves with each other. Nick observes that, “[h]is hand took hold of hers, and as she said something low in his ear he turned toward her with a rush of emotion” (97). Even though it has been five years, it appears as if Gatsby and Daisy’s relationship will continue as it was before Gatsby left. The way that Daisy talks intimately to him is like they are a young couple madly in love, similar to before Gatsby left for the war. They even share physical contact by holding hands, and this behavior seems to show that Daisy has forgotten Tom already, and that Gatsby’s plan is coming into fruition. However, Gatsby should have realized what he was dealing with before this moment with Daisy. When she first entered the house, she showed extreme joy in his possessions, such as his shirt and his yacht, even more so than seeing Gatsby and spending time with him (94-95). Daisy does not display much affection for Gatsby until after she notices his wealth, his social class, and his place in society. Gatsby fails to notice this brutal truth because he is blinded by his dream. That in itself is the point that Fitzgerald is trying to make: following the American Dream is full of misjudgements and harsh truths, that many on the path do not acknowledge in time. Instead, when Gatsby asks Daisy to proclaim her love for him to Tom, he receives a shock when Daisy cries, “[o]h, you want too much!... I can’t help what’s past… I did love him once—but I loved you too” (133). Naturally, Gatsby is both shocked and heartbroken; his deluded mind had convinced him that even though five years of being separated from each other, Daisy would only love him and nobody else. The illusion that Daisy truly loves Gatsby is exposed, and the truth that she is materialistic is implied further. As for Gatsby, he believes in his future, and so he shapes his interpretation of the events around him to fit how he envisions himself to be. Gatsby’s sad reaction to the truth in his relationship with Daisy is a turning point in his life; it is the first time that he realizes that not everything is as perfect as he thinks. Once again, Fitzgerald uses Gatsby’s life as a tool that can help him convey his message that the American Dream is just that for most people—a dream.
Gatsby’s relationship with Nick follows a similar pattern in the sense that an illusion is created at first to mask the true purpose of the relationship, before the truth is divulged. The first time that Gatsby speaks to Nick at one of the parties, “...he told [Nick] that he had just bought a hydroplane, and was going to try it out… [and asks Nick]‘[w]ant to go with me, old sport?’” (47). This is the first time that Gatsby has an interaction with Nick, and he creates a positive first impression by acting friendly and humble. At this moment in the book, he behaves as if he is polite, well-mannered, and simply wants to get to know and enjoy time with his neighbor. Gatsby presents himself in this way so that Nick gains his trust, but it seems like Gatsby is actually taking advantage of Nick to complete his own secret plan. This is confirmed later in the novel during a conversation between Nick and Jordan. Jordan tells Nick that Gatsby wants to know if Nick will, “...invite Daisy to [Nick’s] house some afternoon and then let [Gatsby] come over” (80). In reality, Gatsby’s plan is to manipulate Nick to get closer to his cousin Daisy, whom Gatsby loves. The fact that Gatsby is willing to fabricate, or at least exaggerate, a friendship epitomizes the hidden truth of the American Dream: it is cruel and unforgiving; although it may seem as if everyone is in it together, at the end of the day, Gatsby is truly concerned about his own dream, and is not overly worried about who might be affected as a result of his actions. 
Fitzgerald exposes the brutal and unrealistic nature of the American Dream by creating illusions and misconceptions while developing relationships between characters and promoting speculation and confusion about Gatsby’s life. Gatsby is initially perceived as a person who lives in the moment, as if each day is his last. However but in reality, he is very calculating, deliberate and does everything with one purpose: achieving his American Dream, which influences Gatsby’s actions and behaviors around the other characters in the novel.