Visual Rhetoric in Buffy the Vampire Slayer
        Buffy the Vampire Slayer was a popular television series from the early 2000s. Its plot revolves around Buffy Summers, a teenage vampire slayer who also hunts down other monsters that terrorize the town of Sunnydale. In one of its most popular episodes, “Hush”, everyone’s voice is taken by the gentlemen, and the town is forced into silence. As a result, the show relies upon different forms of visual rhetoric to allow the story to continue without much speaking at all. 
        Throughout the episode, the background music is used to invoke different moods in the audience and get the feeling of that scene across. In the opening credits, fast, upbeat, and loud music is played. The light and happy music choice is important because it subconsciously gets the audience excited for the episode and makes them anticipate a great episode. Similarly, the music is chosen very specifically based on what is going on in the scene. In the plethora of scary or suspenseful scenes, dark and creepy music is always played in the background. Hearing the music not only foreshadows the fact that the scene is going to be spooky, but it also increases the creepy factor. In the various jump scares in the episode, such as the time when a gentleman’s head randomly popped out in front of the window, sharp increases in volume and pitch of the music furthered the element of surprise and made the scare much more effective. On the other hand, dramatic music was often played in important scenes to help the audience realize that they needed to pay close attention. The effect of playing music in such a way is similar to the effect of underlining or italicizing a part of text: attention is drawn to the part of the piece that the creator wants it to be drawn to. All in all, the background sound and music played a key part in emphasizing the content and tone of the scenes and differentiating between their style and importance.
        Additionally, the episode depends upon facial expressions and hand gestures to continue the plot. Immediately after the characters realize that their voices have been taken, they immediately put their reaction on full display to the audience. Buffy and her friend exchange looks of horror, along with frantic hand gestures to signify their feelings of worry, helplessness, and alarm. With the effective use of these elements of acting, the characters are still able to get their emotions and thoughts across to the audience without speaking. Furthermore, the main antagonists in the episode, the gentlemen, are built on the foundation of facial expressions and gestures. They do not speak anyways, so they are reliant on scary makeup and a constant creepy facial expression to provide some sort of fear factor. Without the use of visual rhetoric, the gentlemen would just appear to be useless characters who are not important to the plot; however, with the rhetorical choices in their favor they appear more relevant and their characters are further developed. The acting by the characters in the episode plays a significant part in the progression of the story and is one of the main reasons that the audience is able to comprehend it.
        In the episode “Hush”, the directors of Buffy the Vampire Slayer trust in their use of visual rhetoric to sustain the episode. In that manner, they are able to create an episode that appeals to the audience without much dialogue being present at all.