The Boston Massacre is thought of as one of most influential shootings in the history of the United States. The common reaction is of cruelty and shock, but in reality the Boston Massacre is largely misunderstood, beginning with its name. Massacre exaggerates the severity of the shooting, making five people feel like fifty, and helped provide political propaganda to paint the British in a bad light. In truth, the soldiers who shot the colonists were guilty, but Captain Preston himself was innocent because of the lack of direct evidence against him and the invalidity of the arguments used to liberate the soldiers. 
        There were conflicting accounts of what the Captain did, each generally supported by either the prosecutors or defendants, but not both. Some prosecuting testimonies claim that Captain Preston ordered his soldiers to fire at the crowd. William Wyatt recounts “In about 10 minutes I heard the officer say fire. The soldiers took no notice. His back was to me. I heard the same voice say fire. The soldiers did not fire. The officer then stamped and said ‘Damn your bloods fire be the consequences what they will’”. This seems to be proof that the captain ordered the soldiers to fire. However, on a different account, the captain was asked “if he intended they should fire on the inhabitants” to which he responded “By no means” (Palms). The captain is described as not wanting to fire, but since the colonists were very active against the soldiers, the situation could have arisen after which forced the captain to order to fire. This emphasizes Peter Cunningham’s testimony, where he says “I am pretty positive the Capt. bid ‘em Prime and load. I stood about 4 feet off him. Heard no Order given to fire”. This is especially important because Cunningham was part of the prosecution, but since he gives evidence in favor of the defense regardless of his side, it can be fairly assumed that the account that he gave is the most accurate. The defense of the captain by a prosecutor along with the mixed accounts by all of the other testimonies makes the captain innocent, but the same cannot be said for the soldiers. 
        Arguments to free the soldiers are presented, but they are not good enough. The colonists were throwing things at the soldiers, and “the instant he spoke, I saw something resembling Snow or Ice strike the Grenadier on the Captain’s right hand being the only one then at his right. He instantly stepped one foot back and fired the first gun” (Palmer). The soldiers are portrayed to be acting in self-defense, which would make their killing legal. But, what exactly were the soldiers defending themselves from. It is only described to be snow and ice that the colonists are throwing to the soldiers by the testimonies, which truthfully are not that dangerous. Therefore, the soldiers fired for insufficient reason, which would make them guilty.
        In conclusion, the captain was innocent but the soldiers were guilty. The evidence against the soldiers is weak and does not properly justify their release, while the evidence presented against the captain can be disproved by more reliable accounts. The Boston Massacre was not as bad as it is remembered by history; although colonists died, it was not as oppressive and sinister as the colonists made it out to be.