Discrimination During the California Gold Rush
The California Gold Rush was the closest the American public has ever gone to reaching an uncivilized and chaotic society. Gold was first discovered in California by American carpenter James Marshall, while constructing a new mill for local landowner John Sutter in January 1848. Immigration to California exploded, and the new settlers were able to mine approximately 400 million dollars worth of gold between 1849-1855 (Kowalewski). Although the Gold Rush promised hopes of a luxurious life, reality was far from it. Diseases such as cholera were passed around, and the bad weather, expensive prices, fleas and insects worsened the morale of the miners (Kowalewski). No amount of gold could replenish the energy consumed to complete the exhausting action of mining the gold. As a result, interactions at the mining camps did not remain peaceful for very long. The California Gold Rush was marred by the discriminatory and oppressive treatment of the other ethnic groups that participated. Social prejudices against the Chinese, Native Americans, and African Americans led to immense suffering that would change their futures forever.
Often lost in general history, the Chinese miners actually faced harsh racism from the Americans and had to struggle to survive the Gold Rush. In 1850, there were 7,520 Chinese immigrants in America. As a result of the lure of the Gold Rush, their population increased to 105,465 by 1880, with 77% of them living in California. But as the Chinese population grew, so did the American bias against them. They were treated unfairly, and many racist laws were created that directly impacted them (Archuleta). For example, the Foreign Miners Tax of 1850 forced non-whites to pay sixteen dollars as a fee to mine in California (“People vs. Hall”). Essentially, the heavy tax put a weight on the backs of foreign miners such as the Chinese, and they were not able to financially benefit on the same level that the white miners did. Instead, the Chinese were accepted as a cheap source of labor, machines who did all of the mining, and the white men would get some of the lost gold money back in the aforementioned tax (Archuleta). They were thought of as workers and tools, rather than equals who wanted the same opportunity and fortune that everyone else did. This victimization was further portrayed through literature written by Mark Twain in 1871, a series of letters called “Goldsmith's Friend Abroad Again”. The story is centered around a fictional Chinese immigrant’s life in America, where he is hoping to find equality. Instead, the man is a victim of violence, but instead of receiving help he receives a conviction and a jail sentence. Additionally, the man is not allowed to testify in court against the Irish men who assaulted him (Archuleta). Unfortunately, the story written by Twain was not merely a figment of his imagination that he wrote down, but rather influenced by one of the most polarizing events of the Gold Rush era.
In 1854, George Hall (white male) was accused of shooting Chinese miner Ling Sing in the back with a shotgun at least 15 times during an armed robbery of a Chinese mining camp. John Hall (white male) and Samuel Wisemen (white male) were also accused. George Hall was originally found guilty and sentenced to hang, but John Hall was released. No records of the sentencing of Samuel Wisemen still exist today. However, upon review, the California Supreme Court reversed their guilty verdict and released George Hall (Traynor). It was a baffling decision; the court cited the 1850 statute in California that prevented minorities from testifying in court against whites. Nonetheless, the statute did not mention Chinese people; only Native Americans, African Americans, and a mix of both were explicitly mentioned (Traynor). Regarding this very issue, Chief Justice Hugh Murray of the trial said, “the name of Indian, from the time of Columbus to the present day, has been used to designate, not alone the North American Indian, but the whole of the Mongolian race; the word ‘Black’ means the opposite of ‘white’; the word ‘White’ excludes black, yellow, and all other colors” (qtd. in Traynor). Since the only witnesses were three Chinese miners, all of the charges were dropped. Known as People vs. Hall, the case laid the foundation for an era of violence against foreign miners, and there was nothing the Chinese could legally do about it. Still, the Chinese were not the only group discriminated against during the Gold Rush era.
The already abysmal treatment of Native Americans cascaded out of control during the time period. The Native Americans in California were almost wiped out within years because of the catastrophic effects of the mass immigration for gold. The majority of Anglo settlers declared violence on the Natives if they did not yield to them. Local landowner John Sutter, owner of the land where the gold was first discovered, was one of many landowners who enslaved the natives and forced them to mine for minerals (Blakemore). Sadly, similar to the slavery of African Americans, these natives lived in horrible conditions. They were fed leftover wheat bran without utensils or bowls, and kept in locked rooms without beds or furniture. When Sutter invited settlers to his ranch, rather than sympathy arising for the Natives, the settlers became emotionally hardened towards the harsh treatment, and this paved the way for the spread of Native American slavery (Blakemore). Even after their enslavement, Natives were thought of as competitors to the miners. The miners would kill the men in Native villages and rape their women. Some killing sprees involved the deaths of as many as 50 natives in one day (Landry). Settlers who were had never seen a Native American would write in their diaries about their anxiety to kill one. They would shoot a Native American for fun to be able to write back home about it as if it were a great accomplishment. Since the vast majority of the settlers did not have much success, they felt like they needed someone else to blame (“The White Man’s View). Diaries of the white miners described the Native Americans as snakes, toads, skunks, lice, and vermin. Other diaries accounted the horrible acts committed against the Native Americans. Alfred Jackson, originally from Connecticut, wrote “We caught an Indian cleaning up our riffle box Saturday night. When the miners found out about it they insisted on his being punished and it was decided to tie him up to a tree and give him fifty lashes on the bare back. Nobody would volunteer to do the whipping, so we drew lots and Dick Stiles got the job. He used a double half-inch rope, but the Indian after the first half-dozen strokes made such a howl that we let him go, although there was not a red mark on his back” (Jackson). Most of the white miners were not educated and were felons, murders, rapists or thieves; they brought those characteristics with them, and ended up taking it out on the Natives. Native Americans would be called ‘digger’ Indians, which reduced the value of their lives and dehumanized them. Native Americans were seen as obstacles to the mining and the Anglo-American objective, so they were eliminated (“The White Man’s View”). In the years following the discovery of gold, 80 percent of the Native American population of California died due to habitat loss, disease, or genocide (Blakemore). 270,000 Natives lived in California in the late 1700s, but only 30,000 of them were left by the end of the Gold Rush (Landry). 
On the same note, African Americans suffered similar fates. When California joined the United States in 1850, they had declared themselves a free state. Although it may seem like it had a moral intention, this was done purposely to benefit the whites. The members of the government felt that without slavery, there would be much less African Americans present in California, which in turn would reduce the competition in the mining industry. They even tried to ban African Americans altogether, including free men, but ultimately decided against it so that the state could be accepted into the country without any delay (Berner). In the end, the anti-slavery clause did not last long because the government simply did not care enough to actually regulate the slavery. Since the government was not really paying attention, slavery was conducted in California anyways (“African Americans: Gold Rush Era to 1900”). In some cases, slaves were allowed to work for money and earn their freedom. Yet even in these rare circumstances, lots of the slaves had their money stolen back by their master anyways. Estimates say that slaves would spend up to $750,000 to purchase freedom for their families.  Roughly 500-600 slaves are thought to have taken part in the Gold Rush (Berner). Furthermore, the highly controversial Fugitive Slave Law was passed in 1852, which allowed slave-masters to reclaim their slaves who had fled to California and bring them back south, despite California being a free state (“African Americans: Gold Rush Era to 1900”). As a result of the law, African American slaves who escaped and were looking for an opportunity for a new life as a miner were unable to do so. The Gold Rush had many benefits to America, but one cannot overlook the terrible effects that it had on indigenous groups and African Americans. 
America has been looked upon as the land of equal opportunity, but by analyzing its history anyone can realize that it simply has not been. Hostile and inhumane actions against the Native Americans, African Americans, and Chinese were committed daily during the Gold Rush The minorities faced severe racism and violence during the gold rush, and their lives were dramatically worsened in comparison to the lives of the white participants. Today, the country and world are facing similar issues of racism and inequality, but everyone must overcome it and be sure to not repeat the mistakes of the past.