   The True Impact of The Machine
Is a world in which humans do not have to do anything because everything is done by machines really a perfect society? “The Machine Stops,” by E.M. Forester is a short story that depicts many of the qualities of both a Science-Fiction and Dystopian short story. A Dystopian story is a story which takes place in a futuristic, imagined universe with an illusion of a perfect society that is maintained through a type of control. Meanwhile, Science-Fiction is based on imagined future scientific or technological advances and major social or environmental changes. Due to the time it was written in as well as the topics it was written about, this story takes place in the future, which is an important quality in both genres. Although the story displays both Science-Fiction and Dystopian themes, the story leans more towards being Dystopian than Science-Fiction because the story shows an illusion of a perfect society, has strict control by a higher power, it presents a dystopian protagonist who sees past all the ‘perfect’ elements of the society. 
Throughout the story, the Machine that serves all the people exhibits many different forms of control. The Machine threatens anyone who wants to make a journey to the surface without permission with Homelessness. Homelessness ultimately means death because “the victim is exposed to the air, which kills him” (10). This happens to Kuno when he visits his mother and he tells her, “I have been threatened with Homelessness” (10). This is a clear form of control because nobody has a free will to go wherever they want, and everything has to be done through the Machine. The government says that the surface is uninhabitable, but there is no proof provided. Another example of control by the government is their strategic killing of strong people and babies. This is seen when the Machine says “our strong will suffer euthanasia” (14). Euthanasia is the painless killing of someone suffering from an incurable disease, but in this case, the incurable disease was cited as strength passed down genetically causing strong babies to be massacred. In other cases, babies were denied to begin with. Kuno describes that he “had lately asked to be a father, and his request had been refused by the Committee. His was not a type that the Machine desired to hand on” (14). This controls the population, and effectively nullifies the chance of a rebellion. Members of society in the story also think that it is wrong for someone to think independently because they have become dependent on the Machine. Kuno’s mother says to him, “On your own?... But that would be wrong” (12). People blindly follow the Machine, which leads to the illusion of a perfect society. 
The Machine makes it look like the society is perfect, but there are many flaws in the society that can be seen with ease. One obvious sign that this society is not perfect is the fact that the Machine broke. The people relied on the Machine so much that once the original creators died, nobody knew what to do or how to fix it if it ever got destroyed. This shows the dependence of the humans on technology, and that this world was far from perfect. Additionally, the flaws of the society can be noticed in the choice of words by the characters. Kuno’s mom says, “A man who was my son believes that the Machine is stopping. It would be impious if it was not mad” (22). Firstly, the mom disowns her son because he talked ill of the machine. Secondly, Vashti says that to say that the Machine is stopping would be impious. Impious is an adjective that describes a lack of respect, and it usually refers to religion. So, Vashti is ultimately referring to the machine as her religion, which adds to the list of ways that the government controls over the people. The last example of an illusion is when the story questions the purpose of visiting different places because they are all the same. The characters are thinking about traveling, “What was the good of going to Pekin when it was just like Shrewsbury? Why return to Shrewsbury when it would all be like Pekin” (7)? This shows that the world is ‘perfect’ because all places are supposedly identical so there is no need to visit another place, but it is impossible for everywhere in the whole world to be exactly the same. Kuno is smart enough to see past all this and is the only one who ever questions the Machine, making him the dystopian protagonist. 
Kuno questions and disobeys the Machine repeatedly throughout the story. The first example is when his mother is worshiping the Machine; he tells her “Men made it, do not forget that. Great men, but men” (3). This shows that unlike the others, Kuno is not going to treat the Machine as some god, even though he still appreciates it. Kuno also questions the Machine’s authority through his actions, and an example of this is when he tries to go on a journey without permission and the Machine’s worms physically bring him back. Kuno says, “The worms had vanished. I was surrounded by artificial air, artificial light, artificial peace” (17). This showed that despite the consequences, Kuno tried to go against the Machine because he felt he had a free will to to wherever he wanted, and when he returned, he felt everything was fake. The last example of Kuno questioning the Machine is when he predicted that it would be destroyed by saying “The Machine Stops” (22). This is an important moment because no one else would ever question the Machine breaking down, but shortly after, the prediction came true.