Frederick Douglass Writing Assignment
Narrative of the Life of Frederick Douglass, written by Frederick Douglass, provides insight into key ideas and beliefs that dictated how southern plantations were run at the time. Nearly all of the slaves were suppressed from learning how to read and write. After hearing about Douglass’ attempt to learn to read, Douglass’s master, Mr. Auld, said, “A n- should know nothing but to obey his master—to do as he is told to do. Learning would spoil the best n- in the world… if you teach that n- (speaking of myself) how to read, there would be no keeping him… He would at once become unmanageable” (20). Mr. Auld thought that to control slaves, he needed to restrict them. Although it is very unfair, I agree that the philosophy is correct because if the slaves did learn, then they could begin to read abolition newspapers, and even organize uprisings. Later in his life, Douglass reasoned that, “to make a contented slave, it is necessary to make a thoughtless one. It is necessary to darken his moral and mental vision, and, as far as possible, to annihilate the power of reason” (58). At this point in his life, Douglass finally realized that the South treated slaves poorly because they needed to ensure that the slave would continue to work for them and this was only possible by making the slave feel anything but the pain of his work. By beating the slaves, they became too mentally broken to do anything of real impact towards changing the system in which they lived. As Douglass described it, “Men and women, old and young, married and single, were ranked with horses, sheep, and swine. There were horses and men, cattle and women, pigs and children, all holding the same rank in the scale of being, and were all subjected to the same narrow examination” (27). The slaves were treated like animals, and this broke their morale and really prevented many uprisings from ever occurring despite the massive black population. Additionally, rather than admitting that they were not being immoral at the very least, the South continued to cite lousy excuses for their actions. Douglass recalled, “my master found religious sanction for his cruelty… I have seen him tie up a lame young woman, and whip her with a heavy cow skin upon her naked shoulders, causing the warm red blood to drip; and, in justification of the blood deed, he would quote this passage of Scripture—‘He that knoweth his master’s will, and doeth it not, shall be beaten with many stripes’”(33). I wouldn’t call myself particularly religious, but I find the whole idea of using religion as a motive for one’s actions only applicable in certain situations. It appears to be somewhat acceptable in the context of Manifest Destiny, but it definitely does not mitigate the abuse of innocent slaves. This issue is still prevalent today with the terror attacks that are committed, with many of them being based on a religious excuse. I think it is important to draw the line between what is religiously legal and illegal; people cannot be allowed to do anything simply because they believe it. Lastly, I also agree with the idea that by practicing slavery, the slave-owners became hardened to it. Douglass describes his first master as, “a cruel man, hardened by a long life of slaveholding. He would at times seem to take great pleasure in whipping a slave” (3). Just like repeatedly eating something numbs one’s taste buds to it, I think that as slavery continued the plantation owners became numb to their abuse of slaves because it had become such a big part of their everyday lives. In conclusion, I believe that by exposing the southern system of slavery Douglass was able to explain the southern motives to the general public and show its true horrors. Although slavery is long gone, I think that a lot of the principles mentioned in Douglass’ book can relate to modern society and this relation shows that we still have a way to go in making a perfect world for everyone.