Today, the United States is a young country in the middle of a war with Mexico to annex the independent republic of Texas, and possibly even further territory as far west as California. The war against Mexico is undoubtedly a selfish attempt to grab land for their own means, and this can be seen by looking at the inconsistencies and loopholes within the American reasoning in combination with the suspicious events reported be occurring. 
        The United States uses misleading phrases to unjustly influence the general public to follow the government’s agenda. United States President James Polk told congress that the war was necessary because American blood had been shed on American soil (President Polk’s War Message to Congress). The problem with this statement is the question of, where exactly is the border? Abraham Lincoln has the same question. Lincoln is rightfully demanding to know the exact spot where the soldiers were killed, and also information regarding the surrounding settlements, why they were there, and also whether the soldiers were armed (Spot Resolutions). In short, he is trying to figure out if the United States did something that led to them being attacked in an attempt of self defense. The Mexican president says that the United States is trying to take land belonging to Mexico. He further says that the United States is insulting the dignity of the Mexican people and threading their independence and political existence. He says, “the manner of appropriating to itself territories upon which other nations have rights introduces a monstrous novelty, endangering the peace of the world, and violating the sovereignty of nations” (Mexican Proclamation). In short, he is calling out the United States for their lack of respect for Mexico and for thinking that they were so superior that they could annex any territory that they felt like, even without permission. On the other hand, Mexico had already said that they were not interested in selling their land. Despite this, Polk sends an envoy to try to convince them that what they were doing was wrong, but then got angry and unhappy when he was rejected and sent back. Then, Polk has the audacity to stand up at Congress and tell them that the United States had done everything they could to avoid upsetting Mexico (President Polk’s War Message to Congress). I mean, how stupid can Polk be, he obviously upset them by approaching them for the land even after they specified that they did not want to sell. Instead, the president tries to get general sympathy from the public by saying that he tried, but they were hostile towards him.
The reasons given for the war by the United States are questionable, and by analyzing them thoroughly they fall apart. President Polk defends his actions against Mexico by claiming that the “causes which led to the suspension of diplomatic intercourses between the two countries… the long-continued and unredressed wrongs and injuries committed by the Mexican Government on citizens of the United States” (President Polk’s War Message to Congress). Yet, Polk fails to specify what exactly these wrongdoings were, and what types of injuries were actually caused by the Mexicans. Additionally, I already stated earlier that Polk cited the American blood shed on American soil as a cause of the war. Whether this is true of not is questionable, but first-hand witness Captain Hardee provides a description of events which make the whole affair seem like very suspicious business. Captain Hardee says that Captain Thornton wanted to check if the Mexicans had crossed the river. About this, he says “Our guide became so satisfied of this fact that he refused to go any further, and no entreaties on the part of Captain Thornton could shake his resolution” (‘Thornton Skirmish’). Despite the guide telling them that the land was clear, Captain Thornton continued moving forward. After a couple miles, he reached a plantation, which he ordered everyone to enter in a single file line. Inside, the enemy was able to surround them, which led to the casualties mentioned by the president (‘Thornton Skirmish)’. This account raises many new questions. If the sole purpose of the Captain was to see if the land was safe, then why did he continue forward, when his guide thought it was and refused to continue? Considering that the army next went into a plantation, I think that this whole event was a cover-up, trying to hide the fact that Captain Thornton was attempting to steal slaves from the plantation to benefit himself. It would fit in with the other selfish motives, and would explain why he still continued forward. 
All things considered, one must truly question the legitimacy of this war with Mexico. While president Polk continues to press the idea that the war could have been avoided and was a last resort, we must not blindly follow him and rather look at the facts. The explanations provided don’t all make sense, and the reasons given are not sufficient. In the end, we all have to accept that the war with Mexico is nothing but a conspiracy put forward by the government to achieve their own ends.