I hurried down the basement steps two at a time to play video games on my xbox. Before shutting the door, I saw my mom eating, something I did not recognize, but undoubtedly healthy. I turned on my xbox with excitement, and began to play Madden 17. I started laughing to myself, knowing that I didn't get Madden 18 because Tom Brady was on the cover. My moment of happiness was burst when the horrid stench of mushrooms filled my nostrils. Fuming, I remember how my mom is determined to eat fruits and vegetables, and she doesn't care whether I like it or not. However, I tried to ignore it and get back playing on my xbox. I would be relieved of the smell in 2 minutes, because I was about to leave to go to a walk through with my football team. My mom came bustling down the stairs, telling me that we were about to leave. I turned off my xbox and got up, only to sit back down doubled up in laughter. It was 50 degrees out and sunny; I was dressed in a light sweatshirt and shorts. Across from me was my mom, dressed in a massive winter coat, along with fuzzy socks and thick pants. To cap it all off, she was wearing a hat which went all the way down to her ears, which had a panda on it because it was my sister’s. I said to her, “It is 50 degrees… why are you dressed up so much?”. As usual, she responded with, “It’s cold!”. I gave up on the matter because there was clearly nothing to say, and just got into the car so we could leave.
        I was lying down on my bed in my room, relaxing and on my phone. Then, I heard the screech that gave me flashbacks. Remembering previous cases such as bad grades or bad behavior, I was both excited, but also scared of what was to come. My mom came barging into the room, and began yelling like the world was going to end. On top of all this, apparently my room was dirty. I looked around in disbelief, because there was hardly anything. “Where is it dirty”, I questioned my mom. “Look, there, and there”, said my mom, pointing. I looked over, and saw a couple wrappers and trash on the floor. Also, she pointed to the mountain of clothes on my couch in my room (A tiny red couch that could only hold one person; apparently my mom bought it for me because I refused to get up from it and leave in the store unless she did). I got up, annoyed, and hurriedly picked up the wrappers and shot them into the trash like a basketball. One missed and landed next to my mom’s foot. I asked her to throw it away for me, and she responded “you can come over here and throw your own trash”. Even more annoyed, I threw it away. “Now the clothes, pestered my mom”. I asked her why, and she said “I have some friends coming over, so you need to clean your room”. This was the age old reason that made no sense. I said to my mom “I forgot that your friends were going to be partying in my room”. My mom said, “what if they want to see the house?”. I was sure that there would only two reasons why someone would want to ‘see the house’. Either the house would have to be new, or it would have to be their first time. Since this was neither, I was confused at my mom’s logic as usual. However, knowing that if I did not comply the screeching would start again, I shoved my clothes on top of the drawers in my closet. My mom managed to have another problem with this, and made me hang them all up from the rack using the clothes hangers. Finally, my mom was satisfied and left me in my room for some temporary peace.
        Sunday had finally arrived. A day where I could watch football the whole day, and do absolutely nothing else. It was 12:55, and me and my dad grabbed snacks and settled down on our couch for the usual Sunday funday. We watched the game, seeing the spectacular catches and impossible endings. Then, my dad got up, because he had to go somewhere with my sister, and left. My mom was left sitting at the the table, and she was looking at the TV too. After a while she commented, “What is that funny game you are watching? All I see is a bunch of people running into each other. I don't see any ball or any point to it”. I tried explaining to her, but it was no use. After another half an hour of this, my mom came into the living room and turned off the TV. I leapt up, in disbelief, and asked my mom “Why did you do that?”. “The whistles are giving me a headache, go and do something productive”. I told her to go to another room, but she did not want to hear it. “It’s my house, not yours, and I will do what I want”. 
        In the winter, my backyard accumulated a lot of luscious white snow, because the there are trees on one side, so the snow blows in the wind but gets blocked by the trees and falls to the ground. Looking outside, I got dressed up in a sweatshirt and sweatpants, and grabbed my sled. It was a sort of plastic or foam material, and was mostly red and black. Just as I was about to head out, I heard my sister running down the stairs. I tried to hurry out the door and close it in case my fears were correct, but just as I was shutting the door, a thickly gloved hand jammed in between. My sister pried open the door, and insisted that she be able to use the sled too. There had been snow the day before, but my sister obviously picked the time that I was going out to want to go outside too. I yelled upstairs and complained to my mom, but she said something like “She is your younger sister, you need to share, blah blah blah”. The bottom line was, my sister was coming too. I tried to ignore her, and went down the hill formed by the back stairs covered in snow. I liked the feel of the cool wind and snow. But, every time I got back up the stairs from a slide, my sister would be there to grab the sled from my hand. I remember that after a couple rounds like this, I had had enough, and refused to let my sister go. Instead of trying to resolve the conflict with me, my sister went running to my mom, and started complaining. Five minutes passed, and I heard nothing. Then, I heard a loud creak and my mom was looking out the upstairs window. She kept on yelling and yelling about how we needed to cooperate because we were siblings. “Now come inside, enough of this”, said my mom, putting an end to the fu outside in the snow that I was having. As I went upstairs to change my clothes, I made eye contact with my mom and could see her unhappiness, but behind her was my sister, a look of triumph on her face. 
        For my birthday, I usually get a video game, or something reasonable. My sister, however, is a whole different story. She buys over the top, unnecessary items that we all tell her she does not need. My sister’s birthday is on November 28th, and if it happens to fall after thanksgiving we sometimes already have a tree up. On one instance, it was the day before her birthday, and we had the christmas tree up already. My mom walked into the living room and saw a list under the tree, and said to my sister, “Don’t you think that it is a little early to put a christmas list under the tree?”. I will never forget the response that my sister gave, “That isn’t my christmas wish list… that is my birthday wish list for tomorrow”. My mom almost fainted from shock, and said “What do you mean you want all that, do you think that we are made of money?”. I went over to pick up the list, and saw that there were at least 30 things on there. I thought back to all the things in my sisters room that she never uses anymore and are basically a waste. The heaps of old american girl dolls that my sister was begging for at the time. The plethora of stuffed animals that my sister claimed she would not be able to survive without. The clothes bursting out of her closet. My sister always wanted more, no matter what it was, unless it was something she actually had to work for. Obviously, my mom refused to get my sister 95 percent of her list. “It’s my birthday, and I should be able to get however many things I want”. My mom was really angry now, shouting “You are too spoiled”, and then walking away and muttering things like “No appreciation” and “Should be happy with what she has”. My grudgingly stomped away, but I knew that she would handle this situation just like all the others, by the famous motto “live to fight another day”.