The obesity epidemic is a very big issue in the United States today. Obesity rates have increased because of the technological advances such as TV which warrant for reduced exercise (1). Decades ago when the government tried to stop obesity, the McGovern Report was rejected because food industries cared more about their sales, rather than the health of the people (2). Today, subsidized commodity crops have reduced the cost of livestock food, which increased the production of meat, helping grow the fast food industry. Food in general has been industrialized, and more sugar and calories are being added (1).  The obesity epidemic has many physical, emotional, and economic costs to individuals, society, and the environment.
        The high concentration of animals and farms leads to the spread of disease. Also, the increased rate of consumption of meat has made lifestyle diseases such as heart disease more common in the U.S., and the high fat and chemical foods cause cancer (4). Obesity directly contributes to 5 of the top 10 causes of death in the U.S.:heart disease, cancer, stroke, diabetes. And kidney disease. 36% of adults have cardiovascular disease(1). However, obesity hurts society’s wallets as much as it hurts its people. The U.S. spends approximately $300 billion per year on health costs related to obesity, and obesity related illness and injury costs about $70 billion per year to businesses (1). 
Additionally, along with hurting people and society, the obesity issue negatively affects the environment as well. Although people generally associate factories to greenhouse gases that cause global warming, livestock is the second highest contributor behind them factories in producing these gases, as they produce about 20% of the greenhouse gases in the atmosphere (4). Animal waste negatively affects the air, land, and water in the world (3). Furthermore, the chemicals used to enhance the farming of plants and animals can pollute the water and sicken whoever uses it. 
Rather than watching as they are now, the government should actively step up and strive for change. They should spread awareness about obesity and the impact of unhealthy food on consumers and environment. One way to reduce obesity would be by regulating the amount of unhealthy food sold and making laws that restrict its consumption and distribution, however this may never occur because the government is too strongly influenced by the companies that buy all of the food and have a monopoly on the market (5). One thing they could do is increase the amount of fruit and vegetable farmers, as only 3% of U.S. farmland is currently used to grow fruits and vegetables (1). Individuals themselves can also make a chance. People should make sure to read all nutrition labels and ingredient lists, to make sure that they are eating something worth eating. They can talk to their doctor to make a healthy diet, and still make sure that they are getting the essentials at the same time. Lastly, if people must eat junk food, they should make sure to exercise to stay in shape for as long as possible.