Key Differences That Led to the American Civil War
Throughout the United States, the narrative that the Civil War started because the North did not want slavery while the South did is spread to create a simple explanation. However, the causes of the war were more complex than that. Instead of pointing to one single event or idea, one can point to a certain group of events influenced by the various ideologies of both sides. The significant political, economic, and social differences between the North and the South in the mid 1800’s were the largest causes for the Civil War between 1861 and 1865. 
The political disparity between the North and the South forced political compromises that directly increased the tensions between them. As early as 1820, the question of whether slavery should be limited was burning in everyone’s minds. When Missouri wanted to join the country as a slave state, the balance would tip in favor of the slave states in Congress. To avoid this, Maine was also created as a free state, maintaining the balance, and a fugitive slave law was created. But along with this, the 36°30’ slavery line was created, roughly dividing the country in half along that latitude and outlawing the creation of any slave states North of it (Missouri Compromise of 1820). The South was very angry because they felt as if slavery was being limited, but it was only the beginning of their unhappiness. By 1850, California wanted to enter the Union as a free state, even though a lot of the state was south of the 36°30’ line created in the Missouri Compromise. The South did not like this; they felt like it was a waste of possible slave territory and that it was unfair that possible slave territory was being liberated. To admit California, the Compromise of 1850 was created. It allowed California to become a free state, gave ten million dollars in compensation to Texas, outlawed the slave trade in Washington D.C., and harshened the Fugitive Slave Law. The northern abolitionists hated the new Fugitive Slave Law because all of the slaves that they freed could be taken back, and the judges got paid higher if they sent a slave back compared to if the slave stayed north. Four years later in 1854, the underlying issue of how to determine free and slave states remained unsolved. This led to the idea of popular sovereignty proposed by northerner Stephen Douglas. In the Kansas-Nebraska Act, it was proclaimed that new territories could vote within themselves if they wanted to be a slave state or a free state (The Kansas-Nebraska Act, 1854). Although its intentions were good, the act changed the type of conflict between the two sides for the rest of the period leading up to the Civil War: violent acts were now being committed. In “Bleeding Kansas”, both pro and anti-slavery forces came into the state of Kansas and fought to take over the land so that their side could win the state. This culminated in the famous “Sacking of Lawrence”, in which hundreds of pro-slavery men destroyed the anti-slavery capital of Lawrence. The playing field turned more hostile for the future. Around this time, the northerners garnered stronger feelings against slavery. Both abolitionists and men such as Lincoln who did not want western expansion of slavery combined their political ideals into the creation of the Republican Party. The party also disliked the repeal of the Missouri Compromise and wanted Kansas to become a free state (Excerpt From Republican Party Platform (1856)). This new political party scared the South because it was a party united against limiting the expansion of slavery, the very thing that drove the South. In general, the North and the South had many different ideologies which forced them to act differently because their social values and economies were different.
The economies of the North and the South were based upon different systems, and as a result the societies were also on opposite ends of the spectrum. The South relied upon giant plantations of Cash Crops such as tobacco and cotton. Some southern states had hundreds of 1000+ acre farms, and it was a lot of work to maintain (Farms Larger than 1000 Acres in 1860). To efficiently run these farms while not tiring themselves, the South turned to the slave trade. The southeastern states all had a minimum of 25,000 slaves in 1860, with some having as many as 50,000 (Total Slave Holders in 1860). On the other hand, the North had much smaller farms and instead relied on manufacturing in factories. In 1860, millions were invested in manufacturing in the North, and states such as New York and Pennsylvania invested almost 200 million dollars by themselves (Capital Invested in Manufacturing (In Dollars) in 1860). Consequently, the North found it much easier to want to restrict and abolish slavery because the only view that they had was from a humanitarian perspective. The South also had to weigh the negative outcome that abolition would have on their economy. Even if the some Southerners disliked slavery based on human rights, they would have to support it because otherwise their economy would likely plummet. The conflict was inevitable because of the social differences. Tensions also increased in 1857, when in the Dred Scott decision, Scott was denied the ability to sue in court. In addition, African Americans lost many more rights, such as their ability to vote. The case was very divisive and because of its timing, the North became even angrier because of the oppression. The ruling was a direct result of the fundamental social difference of slavery in the South; five of the nine Supreme Court justices were slaveholders, while two more were only elected because they helped make slave laws (Editorial in the Albany, New York, Evening Journal, 1857 Opinions of the Supreme Court in the Dred Scott Case). The social differences forced a lot of both intentional and unintentional corruption that was hard to avoid.
The economic, social, and political differences between the North and the South created the foundation for conflict and tension between the two sides over disagreements that lead to the American Civil War. Although individual events did not necessarily destroy the country, and repetition and timing culminated in disunity. Slavery was one of the key differences, with Confederate Vice President Alexander H. Stephens saying that “The new constitution has put at rest, forever, all the agitating questions relating to our peculiar institution African slavery as it exists amongst us the proper status of the negro in our form of civilization. This was the immediate cause of the late rupture and present revolution” (Excerpt from the Cornerstone Speech Given by Alexander H. Stephens, Vice President of the Confederacy Savannah, Georgia, March 21, 1861), declaring that the issue of slavery was the main reason for the separation of the South.