The Consequences of Cultural Interaction
Throughout history, some cultures have coexisted peacefully, yet others have clashed violently. Things Fall Apart by Chinua Achebe focuses on the relationship between a local Igbo tribe and European conquerors who are trying to spread their religion, which compares well to the Islamic unification attempts that took place in Sudan. Their stories are very similar in the way that an outside religion snuck its way into the society, the way that the rejection of the new culture eventually lead to internal conflict which threatened the stability of the society, and in the eventual collapse of their societies.
There is an influx of foreign culture that makes its way into the African society through different circumstances in the book compared to the conflict in Sudan. In Things Fall Apart they enter the society as expected; people who come from a foreign place and impose themselves upon the society. While Okonkwo, the protagonist, is in exile,  His friend Obierika visits and tells him that “one morning three white men led by a band of ordinary men like us came to the clan” (Achebe 139). The seem normal, but just days later “The three white men and a very large number of other men surrounded the market… And they began to shoot. Everybody was killed” (Achebe 139). In the book, the outside culture enters violently and makes its presence felt, and immediately changes the landscape of the Igbo society. On the other hand, in Sudan, the foreign culture arose from inside Sudan itself. In the 1870s, England had a strong influence on the Sudanese society, and were working to end the slave trade. Muhammad Ahmad was a local spiritualist who was attempting to unite Sudan under Islam. He and his following were driven out by the British fifteen years later, only to have another uprising by someone else with the same idea half a century later. General Ibrahim Abboud, World War II veteran, gained power in 1958 and tried to pick up where Ahmad left off (Sweeney). Sudan faced the challenges of a foreign culture trying to take over twice, and despite the contrast with the way they came and the foreigners who came in Things Fall Apart, they both had identical reactions in the society.
The integration of foreign culture puts a lot of  stress on the frameworks of both societies. In Things Fall Apart, Obierika recounts to Okonkwo and another visit, “Have you not heard how the white man wiped out Abame”, to which Okonkwo responds, “Why did they not fight back. Had they no guns or machetes? We would be cowards to compare ourselves with the men of Abame… We must fight these men and drive them from the land” (Achebe 175-176). Rather than thinking of what Abame could have done wrong, Okonkwo immediately makes up his mind that he wants to fight for his land to remain his land, and is not afraid to use violence. Okonkwo’s reaction is very similar to the reaction of the southern tribes of Sudan under the first attempt to unify the country under Islam, by Muhammad Ahmad. At first, “the southern ethnic groups approved as these new masters took power in the north, but they soon realized they had exchanged one taskmaster for another. They did not embrace Islam, finding it complicated and its demands for prayer and meditation at specific times an interference with farming and raising livestock (Sweeney). The reasons provided were all viable reasons, but they still are reasons that led the south to reject the foreign religion of Islam from taking over. A little over 60 years later, the south rejected a second attempt at Islamic unification by General Ibrahim Abboud (Sweeney). Both the Igbo people in Things Fall Apart and the Sudanese tribes rejected the new culture, which would cause conflict in their societies that would ultimately lead to drastic outcomes changing their lives forever.
Inevitably, the continued disagreement between the local sides and the foreign imperialists causes extreme situations of violence.  In Sudan, the relationship between Ahmad and the British become so toxic that “Mahdi's forces destroyed Gordon's armies--and beheaded the general. Followers of the Mahdi ruled Sudan until 1898, when they fell before British machine guns” (Sweeney). Mahdi was Ahmad’s local nickname, and after disapproving of the British takeover he went as far as killing the British general George Gordon. This did not sit well, and lead to full scale violence that only ended after the British killed enough Sudanese people with their advanced technology that Sudan simply had to give up. Correspondingly, Things Fall Apart describes interaction with the Europeans as a painful conflict. Obierika painfully describes what his clan did wrong, by saying that“The white man is very clever. He came quietly and peaceably with his religion. We were amused at his foolishness and allowed him to stay. Now he has won our brothers, and our clan can no longer act like one. He has put a knife on the things that held us together and we have fallen apart” (Achebe 176). Obierika is very wise, and he accurately analyzes the severity of their situation. The Europeans effectively split the Igbo society into either supporters or non-supporters. This negatively affects the clan because their strength was their unity, but once it is taken away they are left vulnerable. This only escalates the conflict, as at a clan meeting,  “Okonkwo’s machete descended twice and the man’s head lay beside his uniformed body” (Achebe 204). Okonkwo is pushed so far by the Europeans that he murders one of their messengers, and then leaves and hangs himself. Neither would have happened regularly, but because of the circumstances caused by the rejection of the culture, it was like the doomsday clock had reached midnight. like that to happen. Meanwhile, the first conflict in Sudan was bad, but it pales in comparison to the conflict caused by their second rejection. General Abboud created an assembly which “exacted heavy taxes but spent little in the south on much-needed schools, hospitals, and roads. It expelled Christian missionaries and built mosques in southern villages. Southern tribes fought these changes, sometimes by killing northern settlers sent to "Arabize" the region, and the government responded by burning towns identified as rebel strongholds” (Sweeney). The constant neglect for the local tribes by Abboud lead to an uprising which removed him from power. This only made matters worse, as once the uprising group had the government power, they were able to massacre 1400 people in one of the cities in Sudan, Juba. The result was a civil war, which lasted almost two decades (Sweeney). All in all, the conclusion that can be drawn is that the rejection of a new culture or community leads to conflict which dictates the future of that civilization.
All things considered, the consequences of rejection of a foreign culture in a society are serious and often have a lasting impact. It is seen throughout all three phases of the process, slightly in the introduction of the culture, an increasing amount as that culture is ostracized, and the final blow is made during the conflicts that follow. Things Fall Apart is historical fiction, while both the Islamic unification attempts in Sudan happened in real life; nothing can be done about the events that are described, but instead, it is more important that people can learn from those disasters and lead a more accepting society in the future. 