In Twelfth Night by William Shakespeare, Maria’s wittiness and outspokenness helps her become a very likable character. Malvolio, Olivia’s servant, plays the role of rule-enforcer and annoys everyone in the play with his arrogance. In response to this, Maria showcases her smarts by devising a plan to humiliate him. She explains to Sir Toby, “I will drop in his way some obscure epistles of love… I can write very like my lady your niece” (II.iii.155-156, 159-160). By making the plan Maria reveals her mischievous side, which appeals to the audience and makes her character more realistic and likable. Malvolio finds the letter and immediately falls for it, propelling the plan in motion. After the success of the trap, Maria discloses, “He will come to her in yellow stockings and ‘tis a color she abhors, and cross-garnered, a fashion she detests; and he will smile upon her which will now be so unsuitable to her disposition” (II.v.199-203). The depth and intricate details of the plan is revealed; Malvolio will do exactly what Olivia would hate, in clothing and behavior. An appreciation for Maria’s wit arises, and she creates a comedic subplot in the play. In doing so, she garners additional respect and popularity among the audience. Similarly, Maria provides comedic relief by being very outspoken throughout the play. When Sir Toby brings in Sir Andrew as a suitor for Olivia, Maria directly says, “He hath indeed all, most natural; for, besides that he’s a fool, he’s a great quarreler; and but that he hath the gift of a coward” (I.iii.29-31). Maria calls Andrew a fool and a coward right to his face, and through this brutal honesty Maria can amuse the audience. Likewise, Maria proceeds to disrespect Malvolio by referring to him as “The devil a Puritan that he is, or anything constantly but a time-pleaser; an affectioned ass” (II.iii.146-147). Maria speaks her mind and reveals her strong dislike for Malvolio; she thinks that he just blindly listens to his superiors to get on their good side. It is another example of her sense of humor that benefits the perception of his role in the play. The outspoken and witty nature displayed by Maria creates her personality; a funny yet smart personality that ultimately makes her one of the most likable characters in Twelfth Night.